e
e e
well good morning folks audio
check bear with me a second
here for
all right well good morning folks hope
everyone's doing
well so if everything is as it should be
you should be
[Music]
seeing a weekly chart of the NASDAQ for
September delivery contract month
let me get my laptop where I can hold it
better all right
so we have had our economic news driver
come out at
8:30 whenever we have that report or
similar like PPI
CPI um non from perel you shouldn't be
trading that day you should just wait
for the opening bell and usually trade
the 10:00 Silver Bullet so if you're
really really forcing yourself to engage
on that
day just for practice or just for the
experience of it
um just wait until Silver Bullet for
nonpr that's the easiest way in my
opinion and it doesn't always equate to
you're going to be winning but that's
the suggestion I would bring forth to
you so if you're NFP kind of guy or gal
uh that's my recommendation if you're
can be trying to explore that but I want
to take your attention to this low right
here okay so on this candle here on the
weekly chart of NASDAQ it's July 22nd
2024 and this is a weekly chart so I
believe that low at 18883 and a quarter
it could touch it because we have this
sells side and balance buy side and
efficiency we're just about near it here
so how far can it keep pressing up into
it that far and as much but I don't have
a whole lot of faith in it as of right
now but the midpoint of that
Wick right there which would be
consequent encroachment um I like the
fact that we had the candle close on
this weekly range off of its low the
next week we open we trade up come all
the way back down so from this candle
close and this candle's
low all of that that range is
balanced and all the way back up to here
as well so I like to see some kind of
stiff opposition to any forward run
higher at the
18883 and a quarter level okay so I
would csel you to have that level on
your notepad if it's on your chart
that's fine too it doesn't mean it has
to go to that level just means that uh
in my opinion using a higher time frame
broad range observation you vantage
point I think that that's probably a
likely
scenario if we look at the daily chart
we can see also that we are just about
at the butt
end of that uh Candlestick
low so about 10 handles or so
thereabouts so this big candle up here
so that's also something to look for so
we'll just call it uh the 50 what is
it um I'm on the wrong candle sorry the
U 54 level so 854 so 854 should be on
your chart and
883 we'll call
884 just to round it
up right and then dropping down to a
60-minute
chart really wonky type of price action
in
here just keeps drifting
higher 15minute time
frame uh this is a a really random level
in reaction off of that it's probably
some kind of um a bullish Divergence and
some kind of momentum indicator I'm
certain it was probably something to
that
effect I'm just
kidding the uh if you look at the new
day opening Gap um
you'll see that's the high so um if
we're looking at naked price action
which we're going to try to do that
today okay um if we
can just bring in the
uh the five minute chart
here all right so we
had our 830 news driver it rallies up
challenges the
London session
high so I'll add this it'll populate all
of
my previous
annotations okay so you can see
the new day opening Gap high that formed
last
evening right there okay so there is the
close F5 and then reopen it 6:00 and
since it's over 20 handles sticking with
the rules the consequent encroachment
level is annotated so you can see I
traded back down to that level there and
then red rather
aggressively order
block trades until here rallies up and
we've
pushed above the London
high so now I'd like to see
it either try to make an attempt and
fail you can see all the other levels
down
here you see all that so I'd like to see
it make an attempt to try to get to that
54 level and or the
level and I'm in no
hurry but for the sake of looking at
where it could potentially reach for it
I was looking at this hard time frames
with you
and by the way I've going through the
comments I'm pleased to see that
uh you guys are enjoying the the live
streams and also seeing how the markets
are respecting the things I'm covering
before the fact so that's that's how it
should be never should be like just
always Market replay you know I guess
there's a time and place for Market
Replay for you as a personal student
experience but you're trying to teach
what Market replay and it just it really
just promotes the idea that you don't
know what you're talking about if you
did you would just simply do it with
live
data and there's no argument around that
no one can argue themselves out of that
it's the way it
is all right so all I'm doing is
uh yeah we we'll go 883 and a half and
that was based obviously like I
mentioned on that Weekly chart then we
dropped down to the daily chart
the key level I'm interested in on the
daily is here the weekly is here right
so now opening bell we want to see if it
can Spike up into and reach up into
these levels here I'm not trying to try
you know try to promote any kind of
Entry idea I want to see how if it can
trade to that daily level or the weekly
level because they've already pushed it
up a lot I'm not interested in buying
long I'm not interested in going short
yet
so I just want to sit on my hands and
wait and what I'm trying to do Caleb is
since it's post PPI post CPI that type
of report in other words after that
report comes at
8:30 uh we don't ever try to do a
initial High initial low for liquidity
sake you know into those types of
reports because those types of reports
as I mentioned yesterday and other times
in the
past it's
extremely min manipulated so and because
they're usually one-sided directional
runs I try not to have any
concern right before the CPI number and
the PPI number because nobody has any
idea what they're going to do okay
um if I try to give you a directional
bias and or it's going to reach here
when it does the CPI or the PPI number
you would see that I'm more at to be
incorrect
so if that's what I've noticed over the
last 30 years I'm not having the ability
the daily TR uh objective to trade to so
now I want to see if it can trade it to
8350 the uh if that's what my data is
suggesting then that means that there's
low probability for me to try to pick a
direction pick a Target pick a liquidity
I just let them go in like a hurricane
you know you can't stop it you can't
stand in front of it so just simply wait
for it to do whatever it's going to do
and then after the you after the storm
passes which is 8:30 you once that
initial wave of volatility comes into
the marketplace then you can go and
start looking for setups okay what what
did they leave in the wake of that type
of uh delivery and
price initially what I'm looking at is I
like these lows in here see how they're
relatively
equal so I like that
one so we can go and start annotating it
now because this is our
initial relative equal lows so I like
this
and I'll
[Music]
just you may hear my puppies I'm in the
basement today my wife's up here trying
to troubleshoot with the
a tech with my son's computer
so and we'll
do
bottom there you
go so that's my initial sell side
liquidity so I think this is a factor
initially the the study um it goes below
this low here we've already ran through
it on the 830 news then came back down
into this Bice balance sign an
efficiency so you might question well
why don't you just put your level there
because I'm teaching my son to focus on
relative equal lows and relative equal
highs and what I'm doing here is I'm
waiting to
see if they're if they can form a
relative equal High it doesn't have to
it can go up there where it's at right
now and fail and break lower or it could
go up above 8 8350 and just keep going
higher I'm not trying to predict that
type of price action because I'm trying
to build a idea around the 10:00 hour so
hopefully you know our time together
between now and 10:30 um I I do want I
do personally want to close it at 10:30
today just because I want to keep it
short
um so hopefully by then you know I can
identify the uh the Silver Bullet with
you live there's your 883 84
level so it's probably random too
um when you have something like you
screenshot it and the key takeaways is
this forget the fact that it's the PPI
number forget that it's a PPI a CPI fomc
label it but you want to go back through
price action and say okay from where it
was likely to reach two and
Y and then from that price point here
all the way to the beginning in the
origin of the move which is here which
is the new de opening Gap that was
formed at five
and the difference between that closing
price and the opening price at 6 p.m.
yesterday evening New York local time
okay and then you go back through and
you study it this is a f minute chart so
you can see we traded into an order
block there it rallied up we have a
breaker trades there with a consequent
encroachment POS B cell efficiency so
convergence of several PD arrays there
with the likelihood that it's going to
run
what
here trades High High comes back
down trades into the inefficiency here
rallies again comes back down once more
trades into the rejection block which is
the down close candle closing price
trades there and expands through fair
value Gap
forming here with an order
block an old
high fa Gap trades to it rallies to the
Daily objective I outlined and then the
weekly okay so on the weekly chart we
have now traded and closed in that
Weekly fair value Gap or Cy that's this
level
here
so you might look at that and say well
that was wild why you take that trade
because I'm not interested in
chasing a a run like this that's long in
the tooth that means it's it's been
working it's it's running I don't want
to try to get in the last portion of a
move not to say that this can't go any
higher but you got to remember what's
going on
everyone now sees what the the news
driver did at
8:30 right in
here okay so that big run here they want
to try to get on board and run with that
and here's the opening price at
930 what's it doing it's one shot one
shot excuse me tongue twister it's a
one-sided one shot delivery from open
right to the weekly level I just gave
you going at the opening of this live
stream so that's all I would be reaching
for if I was going to go along anyway so
what I choose to do is I want to see do
they want to take it there and then I
can sit and relax and worry about what
it's going to do afterwards because
obviously the Market's going to gate and
move around right so we have to build
some kind of context as to why we're
entering a trade and if it's so close
like if we're in here yes 50 handles is
handles but it's chasing 50 handles at
the tail end
of what's that 200 handles okay so
you're trying to get the last piece of
pie and you know what they say use your
manners don't be the person who takes
the last thing left on on the serving
table I'm not trying to be the Glutton
that wants to catch every single move
I've hurt myself doing that
I kind of talked a little bit about that
yesterday I got a lot of feedback
positive feedback about some of the
additional content that I talked about
yesterday CU I'm counseling my son on
how to prevent toxic thinking and also
to kind of like balance the fear and
greed aspects and when you start getting
success and how to avoid the
Tilt when you lose control of what
you're doing and what that means is if
you have a losing trade you go and you
start doing things that are not
characteristic to what you initially
were trying to trade off of or you know
a abandoning your PL your trading
opportunity or model and just trading
impulsively because you're trying to
chase price and you lose sight and
connection with what it is you trying to
do and then you blow the account or
create such a huge draw down that's it's
very hard to come back from
so I like I said I appreciate all the
comments I see them but the people that
leave the same comment that says why new
comments uh that that person gets banned
I'll never see a comment from you again
that means you never listen to me or
you're you're just doing something
stupid and usually it's from people that
don't even follow me so I just BR them
get rid of them but uh I I appreciate
all the positive comments and everyone's
support of this new Venture here and
Caleb just let so you know that they're
thanking you and telling me to thank you
for asking to go into teaching you again
because
that that unselfish decision you made
about making it available to them as
well
um they appreciate that so anyway uh
that's the F minute chart we went up to
our price level here um I'm going to
drop into a one minute chart
now okay so you can see on the one
minute chart we have those relative
equal lows real smooth uh I don't like
this one because it went slightly lower
than that one okay um if we can get
through this and and beyond that low
then my next attention would be right in
here see see how smooth that is that's
also right before the 8:30 news
driver so I'm going to air on the side
of it could be just them pumping it up a
little bit more and trying to get
Traders caught offside chasing it
because it's been going up since last
week okay
and I just remember that I didn't show
you what I was referring to yesterday I
said how we can use Monday there's a an
expectation on my part or anyone that
learns my Concepts and the way I
internalize price delivery is if I'm
anticipating a 20 to 30% retracement on
the present or previous week's range um
if I don't get that type of delivery on
a Friday which is why I dubbed at TGIF
Thank God It's Friday if the Candlestick
for the weekly range is
all one-sided big bull that type of
thing obviously it'd be one-sided
because it's a single cand that makes it
weekly but if it's been predominantly
one-sided and last week was up
predominantly for the
indices I mentioned in the live stream
on Friday talking to my son I said it's
I think it has the potential to do TGIF
that means it could potentially reach
into and retrace as much as 20 to 30% in
the weekly range last week but I
mentioned yesterday in Monday's live
stream on the 12th of August
2024 that we didn't and see it
materialize so when that happens we can
use that same idea and use the highest
height it forms on Monday and anticipate
that type of retracement and while I'm
talking and we're not really doing
anything yet here technically uh you can
go and pull up your weekly range measure
your FIB low to high include yesterday's
high and notice where the low of the day
formed and also what what also was there
yesterday while I was calling for last
Friday's new day opening Gap so there's
a convergence and Confluence of
Friday's new day opening Gap and also
the
20% range of that
entire you know yesterday's high and
last week's low so that's the effect I
was referring to and that's why all
factors where I was saying to you you
know what are you doing when you're
trading on a day like this you got to do
it early and when I was starting the
stream I said you bear with me one
second I was putting my pups away and I
heard I'm checked the uh the FIB level
and I I saw that it was converging with
that uh new day opening gap which is why
I was telling you uh to watch this if it
goes below the new week opening Gap it
can go down to Friday's new day opening
Gap and we watched it ping out like like
Gang Busters
yesterday so anyway uh I did not lose on
purpose by the way I I I I've teased a
lot in the in the past but I was
generally expecting it try to you get
down there and move in my favor but I
saw what was likely to happen and good
old Phil over there um slid some dials
to the left and the right and then I
came back for the Stop which is kind of
like what I said I was going to do it
was going to get stopped at I was going
to go and bump my stop everybody can see
where my stop was I'm sure everybody was
going to try to trade with the same
thing which is the reason why you want
to watch me uh live trade anyway because
you want to copy what it is I'm doing
and
once it hit the stop dropped down and
went to everything I outlined yesterday
real time so it's important to try not
to be in a rush after a PPI a CPI number
release because you feel like you're
missing the
party so Caleb when you have these days
it's in it's in my interest to see you
try to not participate in these days to
be honest with you there there's plenty
of time to grow into the aptitude to
work and navigate in these types of days
but try not to put so much emphasis on
being able to be successful navigating
them now it doesn't mean that you
shouldn't be in there watching price
action logging in and seeing what it has
done and then using that as a means of
building you building um experience
reading it and appreciating the level of
risk that that these types of days
promote that other you know other
Traders or new startups someone that's
really not really been able to find our
model yet uh they'll go in and they will
this right here is our initial buy side
so
um let me draw this out real
quick uh other folks with less
experience they'll see this type of day
and they'll say well you know I want to
be a part of
part of that and hopefully capture you
know big runs and big money and I'm
going to counsel you to try to avoid
that because there's there's plenty of
time once you have more experience to
know with a great deal
more I
guess trust in your ability to see these
big moves coming and you don't really
need the PPI and the CPI numbers to get
these types of ranges you just have to
hold for the daily range okay
um over time you'll learn that so what
I'm studying here is this
Wick right
there I'm watching the halfway point
does it Spike into it a little bit above
it and reject or does it completely roll
over top of this
high and that should not be like that
doing too many things at one time
[Music]
okay
so I prefer it to take out that high and
then start to make an attempt to
gravitate down to take the low here here
and then work its way down in here even
if it wants to go higher in the
afternoon or continuously go higher I
would favor this type of action simply
because it'll give us some framework to
work within for the 10:00 hour okay so
we got about 14 and 1 12 minutes before
10:00 um less than that for the 10:00
macro which would begin in about 3 and
1/2 minutes or
so so 10 minutes before the top of the
hour at 10 to 10 there we go we have to
run above it okay so now we have
relative equal highs after the opening
bell so we don't try to do any initial
buy side or sell side on PPI and CPI
number days okay wait for the opening
bell
if we can get the framework within the
range of 7 to 9:30 we can go back
through that range because that's
they're all operating hours okay you
just don't want to look at anything
prior to 7 o'clock because then you're
going to incorporate London uh session
uh price action which kind of makes it a
little bit more complex because there's
a lot of different things that that can
Inspire in terms of specific daily
schematics or profile files as I call
them like road maps how the how the
daily range will be formed doesn't mean
that you're going to know exactly it
doesn't mean I'm going to know exactly
every single day but there are
characteristics that tend to repeat and
I taught that on the mentorship content
so it's the private mentorship videos
and core content lessons that I uploaded
on this YouTube channel for free um go
into the day uh day trading section
portion of that and you'll see what I'm
referring to
all right so we have had the buy side
ran nor realtive equal highs post
opening
bell and we have no run on sell side yet
it's just been one straight shot great
from the opening
bell here's 9:30 Trad it back down a
little bit rallied up
so when we're looking at
price and you know this cayb because
every time I sit down with you I'm kind
of explaining it to you you're not
trying to
force and what I want to do is I want to
see if this Gap here that we traded back
down into does it give that up okay
because if it can fail and go go lower
this may be something that's influential
for resistance we're not trying to pick
the top we're not trying to call the top
we're not trying to call the reversal
we're letting the market tell us very
clearly where it wants to go we already
shown 50 handle run off of a daily
Target and a weekly Target straight shot
to it just a beautiful uh illustration
of what it is that you're trying to do
initially you're not trying to get in
patterns okay you're not trying to pick
the best stop loss location or where to
move your stop loss you're trying to get
a feel for where the market could
genuinely end without a whole lot of
back and forth type price action where
it can try to gravitate to and that's
the draw on liquidity and that's the
first thing that you're trying to do and
when you give yourself permission that
that's all you're trying to do it makes
watching price action enjoyable it's
very it's almost like meditation
for me and I I'm I'm pretty good at I
can see it and pretty much know what
it's trying to do and more or less when
it's trying to do it so there we go we
have a run
again and we'll see does it want to keep
that or is it just disrupting everyone
that's been watching the
stream
second okay to put my phone on do not
deserve it's a local number so I don't
know who that is but I can't talk to you
right
now the
uh but the same thing here if if we can
trade
lower again I'm not trying to buy it I'm
not trying to chase it it's too long in
the tooth for me and what happens if it
just keeps going up ICT you know what
you feel upset about that that you
missed it like say it runs 400 handles
day to D side
I don't care you because number one it's
going against everything that I have as
a comfort and knowing that this is what
I choose to do and what I do is I teach
people how to be a buyer in discounts
how to identify discount anyone that's
trying to go long in this right here is
literally chasing price that's the
definition that's the epitome of chasing
price and you're literally asking the
market to take your head off and I have
done that as a younger man thinking okay
I missed it I'm going to catch the last
portion of it and hope it starts to take
off and have one of these big commercial
bull markets that Larry booms was
talking about all the time because I
thought every Market that had certain
characteristics we're going to just go
straight to the moon and I got hurt a
lot doing that so I forced myself to
wait for it to trade to either you know
some kind of opposing liquidity and then
wait for a failor swing after that or um
I look for it to give a clear indication
that it wants to
go higher after it's gone
lower so it has to go into a a
retracement that makes sense and goes to
a pdra or a liquidity pool that I've
already predetermined so that way I'm
not reacting to not being response
responsive or impulsive to what is I see
in price versus I'm waiting for
something to come into my crosshairs and
then when it does I'm going to pull the
trigger because I know what I want to
see happen if I'm going to pull the
trigger I expect my target to fall to
its knees and expire right then and
there not fight me and try to you know
do battle with me for the outcome of
that that trade I wanted to just give up
The Ghost and drop dead and then I know
I have a winner and I can just manage it
and see how much blood I can squeeze
from
it here um
watching where Price is Right now it can
be
rather uncomfortable because especially
if you're
new the natural impulse is it's going to
keep going higher it's going to keep
going higher it's going to keep going
higher and why shouldn't you just take
along why shouldn't you be taking this
right here as resistance broken turn
support because again it goes against
everything that I understand about price
action we opened up after rallying you
know since this morning
it's been going higher we had the 830
news driver come
out here came back up we retraced we
have these smooth levels
here this one here is possible and right
at the opening bell at
9:30 right
there that opening price right there we
opened and then rally we came back down
traded into the inefficiency between
that candle and that candle and then
rallied I don't want to be a part of
that if I can't be a
buyer which I explain to you why I
wasn't willing to buy it before it
traded to this level and that level I'm
not interested in taking that trade
because the probabilities for me in my
personal style of trading my way of
reading price action is
not it's it's not conducive for that for
me okay so while other people may take
that trade others may have went long and
maybe have made money maybe they haven't
taken their profits yet and they're
expecting it to Rally higher if that
were the case that we see that happening
today uh that's simply just a move that
I wasn't a participant in I don't have a
trade open right now there's nothing
that there's literally nothing going on
for me I'm waiting for more information
and my interest is how we trade at the
10:00 hour okay that that's kind of like
what I'm I'm doing I want to see if we
can give up this ground that we've made
here and try to make an attempt to come
back down here and disrupt this smooth
little area
here I don't care what it does after
that okay so now think about what I'm
saying if I'm fortunate enough to see
that unfold and I can outline it in
front of you and walk you through it and
it delivers
does that mean I'm going to go long or
hold for short lower prices than that
no it just means that that would be the
end of my interest the exercise would be
complete my son would see what it is I
want him to
see you
get another illustration of what it is I
try to do when I am not in like a quick
overwhelming Overkill hunting mode this
is me in a passive day where i'm not
extremely interested I have subtle
things that I would like to see happen
and if they can materialize in price
action then I'll explore
it but I won't do maximum leverage I
won't do um you know crazy pyramiding
and stuff like that it's just I would
look for it to
happen go in maybe with one or two
contracts that way if I can get a
partial off on one and let the other one
run to this objective down here that's
that's kind of like what I have in mind
but I have to wait for price to give me
those I guess confirmations that it may
in fact do it right now it's still too
early to to deter that remember this Gap
right
here I told you that may be influential
if we fail we went up to the weekly
objective I was giving you at the start
of the live stream we pierced it and we
pierced it once more
so we have three drives here three
drives pattern or if you have that book
I recommended when we first started
talking last week and I've mentioned it
other times in Twitter spaces when I was
on Twitter I'm not on Twitter now I
don't have a Discord I'm not on
Instagram if anybody's on Instagram with
my name they're fake um anyone on any
other social media except for this
YouTube channel if you think I'm talking
from that account and it's me running it
it's not true it's somebody else that's
taking my stuff and trying to pretend
for engagements and whatnot
so they're all just Pretenders but if
I'm talking to you I'm talking to you
from this YouTube channel or my
community tab on this YouTube channel so
there's no other way for me to um be
confused with somebody else's you know
fraud they're doing they're trying to be
me just using stuff I've already put up
and
uh that book Street smarts there was a
little pattern in there
and they they labeled it or named it the
the three Indians pattern which was kind
of cute at the time um but it's
basically just a simple three drives
pattern um it's funny they don't ever
get any Flack about renaming something I
do but my stuff isn't renamed anywhere
it didn't exist before me but I do like
patterns that
have predated me even you know even
before my birth you know I'm I'm 52 but
a lot of classic stuff that happens in
price charts um I'd like to look at them
as a way of attacking it and the three
drives pattern is no different than any
other thing else like a bull flag or
bare flag I like to see those things
form when I'm opposed to what they may
indicate so in other words if you're
expecting like a bull flag I like seeing
them and selling short right inside of a
bull flag when I knew that the
probabilities are likely the market will
go go lower higher and it's very very
satisfying to see that it's also very
satisfying for me to identify diagonal
support or resistance and then Target
the liquidity that would be used in
those instances but a three dries
pattern also can fall victim to that and
how do I avoid falling victim to a three
D pattern a three D pattern just so you
know or three Indians if you want to use
the the title that that Linda rash and
Larry Connor's book Street smarts
utilizes or labels it's usually when the
Market's going higher and if it's
starting to get close to a level that
might be of interest to you um they
don't go so much in the detail in the
book The Street smarts book but I like
the pattern because I did see it
sometimes form where it tried to go up
made a higher high here and that's
usually when my stochastic indicator was
being bearish showing me a Divergence
and I would many
times look at that and say okay it's
going to retrace lower and then give me
a trend continuation Divergence which is
like an indicator that has an oversold
reading here and then it creates a
higher low but the indicator goes lower
than the reading it was here so that's a
it's a type two Trend filing um George
Lane did not create that it's not hidden
Divergence because
um you know George Lane created it it's
Nick Van Ice he Nick Van nice is the is
the guy that gave the trading Community
the the trend following Divergence in
stochastic and George Lan gets a whole
lot of credit for things that he really
didn't earn but U that's enough being
disrespectful but it's not meant to be
disrespectful I'm just giv you a history
lesson because that guy he you
know he he didn't invent it let's just
put it that
way so um I would get burned when I was
trying to explore the idea of being a
short seller which made it hard for me
because you remember I was
also more prone to be a buyer because it
made sense buy something cheap out at a
higher price
in my initial foray
into being a short seller I liked the
pattern of the three J or three Indian
pattern where it would go up high higher
high and on a third High usually not
always usually it would start to trade
lower and you can get something like a
measured move of the lad that
formed prior to the first High you make
and this is not in the street smarts
book this is from this is the book of I
talking
um the low to the first High okay that
low to whatever the highest third swing
high would be I would measure that okay
and then what I would look for is I
would look for half of that range to be
traded to as an initial Target and then
that low right there would be my
objective you don't see that in Street
Smart's book you don't see that in any
book that talks about the three D
pattern that they don't they don't have
that concept it's not there but that's
the logic that I was using because I've
seen that pan out more times than
anything else um there are people that
say that a three dries pattern where
it's trading high high higher to three
higher successive highs then that
creates the long-term top and it just
continuously reverse you know trades
lower for a long time sometimes you know
I've seen certainly I've seen examples
of that but I've also seen how many
times these just create a intermediate
term retracement to set up a longer term
continuation moving higher okay so
U while I like the idea of certain
aspects of of determining and measuring
and
anticipating visually what a reversal
pattern may look like in price action
um I'm more inclined to Simply wait for
the logic that I teach and have taught
on the YouTube channel and in mentorship
and in this mentorship here in 2024
where I'm trying to focus just simply on
what's the next easiest likelihood of
where price is going to go next and it
it's very liberating to try to avoid
being right about where the weekly
chart's going to go and close because I
used to worry about that I used to worry
about where we're going to be three
months from now um I don't have to worry
about that so I've disarmed myself as an
analyst where I don't have to have you
know Olympic level results and I'm
trying to look for just where's the next
easy thing and when I when I say easy
meaning that it's easy for me to assume
a position it doesn't mean it's easy for
you to see it just like I see it and
there's a lot of things that are going
on in the market today not just today
specifically the 13th of August I'm
saying that in recent years and months
that the market has
become faster obviously and that
volatility brings with it a great deal
of risk so you have to know what you're
doing and just always going full bore
you know trying to accelerate to get to
the next profitable trade and do more
each time we're not in that kind of
climate we're in a climate where you
have to be very careful and try not to
be so
uh like 100 mph just slow down and look
for a ni easy setup that makes perfect
sense to your model the parameters that
you've made for that model and it fits
your your personality you're not trying
to be something that you're really
physically not able to do because you
won't be comfortable in the model as I
was talking about last week so we're in
10 o'clock
now okay and so far the Market's still
just pressing higher and that's fine I'm
in no I'm in no
hurry to assume any kind of Hardline
opinion and true to form where I saying
you know we have a high higher high and
a higher high just because you see see
three drives higher doesn't mean it's
going to
reverse it doesn't mean that you're
going to get a nice sell off it just
means sometimes that you if the market
is heavily manipulated and that's what
we're seeing on a day like this you can
get ground down to dust you know the
market is can continuously just keep
grinding in One Direction and I I
genuinely don't like those types of days
and if I can see days that are starting
to show those characteristics it's very
easy for me to say you know what I'm
going to go watch a movie I'm going to
go read a book I'm going to go swim I'm
going to go exercise I'm going to go
spend time with my wife or I'm going to
do whatever you know but I won't I won't
watch the charts
because I want magnitude I
want swings that move around and gyate I
don't want to be a part of a day that
just continuously chips away and just
grinds against a direction I don't I
don't like that I don't like to be in
trades even if I'm right when they do
that I don't like those types of days so
one of the things that you've probably
seen other the years when I show
examples and I end up in trades where I
am seeing profits build up and it may be
a trade that I've built a large position
in pyramiding it I'm more likely to take
a whole lot more partials along the way
because what I'm doing is that I'm
managing my emotions in the psych
psychological War I'm having inside my
head that I don't like this even though
it's making the trade
more in either Pips or or or handles and
the profits just keep building up I
don't like that I don't like being in
that type of environment because those
days are harder for me to determine how
far it'll go and because I don't have
the patience that just simply hold on to
it and and walk away cuz I'm looking
every fluctuation in price action I'm
like you know a kid in a candy store if
you let go of my hand mom or dad I'm
going to go over there and start
grabbing candy and shoving it in my
mouth I'm going to do that okay that's
that's my natural tendency so for me to
balance that and for me to compensate
for that type of wrestling match that's
always going on in my head if I am in a
day where it's just continuously moving
in my favor you might think that well
ICT must be chilling like he's he's just
going to hold on to a actually I'm not
like I'm I'm literally my I'm crawling
in my own skin because this is not what
I want to see I want to see it really
start the run and then give me some kind
of additional entry point even if I am
beyond the point at which I can't by
money management rules I can't pyramid
any more new positions to the underlying
position making it bigger and I taught
that already in last mentorship so I
think it was 2023 mentorship or was it
2022 I don't know but I know I
it I I'm actually looking for a way to
start scaling out of the trade and
there's many times where if I just
simply would have just moved my stop one
more time just to be at peace with it if
it came back and and stopped me out and
I just simply waited till 30 minutes
before the close so so basically we're
saying 30 I'm sorry yeah 30 minutes
after 300 p.m. 3:30 New York local time
and then come back and look at the chart
and see where I am and then either take
a large portion of the trade off if it's
in profit or to Simply close it I would
make a whole lot more money doing that
but I can't live with myself while I'm
in the trade so that's what I'm talking
about if if you have a personality that
goes against the grain with some of the
things I teach it doesn't matter how
profitable I can show it being or
anybody else or a large number of of
Traders it just means that it's not a
right fit for you and there's nothing
wrong with that just like there's a lot
of other things out there that you can
trade and you may be trading with and
it's
profitable it doesn't it
doesn't Vibe with me like I don't have
any any connection to it and I can't
make that type of stuff work with me so
what I'm saying is there are certain
characteristics in certain types of days
in the way the price action is being
delivered to us even with my Concepts I
could be in a winning trade and still
not feel comfortable in it
and because of that discomfort I will
actively look for ways to just start
scaling out of the trade as it's moving
in my favor and then what will happen is
it it's it's many times like this later
on in the day it has this parabolic run
and if I just would have held on to the
trade I would have had a huge win
because of that but I'm generally not a
part of that run because I've wrestled
with the the personality traits that I
have within me that goes against that so
I'm not comfortable it's like like it
makes it feel like I'm long-term trading
and I wanted to be like a long-term
Trader when I first started like I
wanted to get into a trade and hold it
for months and I discovered I don't have
that ability to be that patient because
I I have so many opportunities to see
different setups I can trade long and
short in the same day while it's going
up but it's harder for me to do that in
days like this so what is that
highlighting it's it's highlighting the
fact that I don't have the the ability
to be nimble and trade both long and
short in intraday price action and if a
day is trading like that you can rest
assure either I've either been stopped
out on a trade and not going to go back
in again or I've taken my position out
or I've taken partials off and then got
stopped out I'm not going to resume
anymore because I I like to be able to
buy and sell on the same day that to me
it's an ideal technical day if I can be
a buyer and a seller and have range that
I can use both sides going long and
short that's a that's like a playground
for me like I am in my element I I will
be all in that just doing all kinds of
stuff and taking all kinds of Trades but
if the market just continuously grinds
in One Direction even if I gave
pre-market analysis and commentary if
I'm fortunate enough to be on the right
side of the marketplace and be in that
I'm squirming in my own skin because I I
don't know how to behave in that moment
or in that trade in a balanced in a
mindset that's balanced I'm wrestling
constantly so as I teach and I talk
about the mindset aspects of trading and
what you're going to be feeling when you
start engaging price and you start
seeing these things pan out and when
they don't pan out for you because you
did it wrong um how do you cope with
those things well I'm telling you how
I'm coping with it I'm literally trying
to find an exit ramp and some days when
I'm in it it's like should I just close
all of it or should I take half of it
off there and if I start wrestling with
half or all then I just take one
contract off and I see how I feel about
it do I feel any more comfort from it or
is it causing me more concern I should
have took off more if I if I feel like
that then I'll take another partial off
as soon as it makes a lower low if I'm
short or a higher high if I'm
long right away you
know you should be looking at this Gap
right there
and how we left it
smooth if it's going to drop okay let's
say it's if it's going to drop and I'm
not saying it will or won't I I prefer
it but I would like to see it take it
above these highs here and then show
displacement below that low if it
doesn't do that by
1020 my interest is done for the morning
and I and I'll kill the stream and I'll
be content with what I've explained in
out but if it continuously goes higher
I'm not interested I'm going to close
the stream and that's kind of like what
I'm getting at I don't like days like
this where it just keeps powering
one-sided one-sided one-sided and
everybody out there that wants to find
an opportunity to stand on their soap
box and say well see I ICT says this and
here's the trade I took well if you if
you did well doing it you know I I'd be
the first one to shake your hand say
congratulations you did something that
you felt comfortable doing but I'm not
out there saying you know trade
everything that I teach and that's the
problem with most of my students they
try to do everything that I introduce
and I'm not using everything when I'm
trading I'm picking one thing based on
what I think the Market's going to do
and if I don't see it materialized or if
the price action is not conducive for
the things that I want to try to engage
with then I'm forced to either be
impulsive and just go in at the
gambler's mindset thinking oh well you
know um this is what I really want to do
but let's throw it out out the window
and I'm going to just try to trade for
the sake of being in there and doing
something yeah that doesn't make sense
so I have to know what it is I'm trying
to do what is it that I'm looking for
why should it even be there in the first
place you there's a whole lot more to it
than just simply saying I want to trade
silver bullets I'm going to trade you
know in the macro times you know okay
that's wonderful but what are you trying
to do in that 20-minute interval what is
it what is you're trying to wait for
there has to be something you know for
you to be building the idea around and
right now I have nothing except for
whatever I talk about in price action
whatever I'm suggesting to you at that
moment that's the only thing that I see
viable and so far we've had just the the
Run of all these relative equal highs so
we have that let's annotate this one
here okay but it it would have to get it
would have to go below here because it's
relative equal lows it also would be a
much more meaningful uh displacement I
don't want to just use this
one I want to use this low here so I
want to see if it can trade below that
maybe a little bit retracement in there
and then we'll study and see if it wants
to you know make an attempt to get down
into this
inefficiency and maybe even challenge
this going into the the lunch hour but
if we make a higher high that'll close
the stream for me I won't be interested
in doing anything more even if it were
to trade lower after that after I close
the stream it doesn't make a difference
to me I I I will be away from the charts
even my private students won't even see
me say here's an example I'll just
simply close the charts and be done
um looking for my bottle of water
here so watch this level in
here or not level I'm sorry uh this this
Gap here
[Music]
now I'm shading
that not orange but the it should
technically be orange because I I want
to see can it fail I want this to fail I
want to see it trade below it come back
up and find U stiff resistance on it and
try to retrace into the daily range
that's what I want to see so let me
change the color so that way you
understand what I'm doing because I told
you before if it's ever this color I'm
expecting it to be an inversion
characteristic to it whereas we see it
here become a buy side and balance
cellid efficiency and it trades back
down in if we were having a retracement
and it traded down below these lows here
and it did something like that then I
would look to look for it to go higher
off of that but because we've been
one-sided this keeps pressing higher
higher higher higher we created relative
equal highs and then we upset it like I
was aligning it I'd like to see that
happen then I want to see it
eject it just seems like they're trying
to punish anybody that wants to be short
and they keep knocking them out and then
when there is no
more sanity in trying to go short
through the retail Traders perspective
that's when the market will go lower
because they are
building um liquidity when you do
this if it makes a higher high I pull
the plug and I'm no longer interested
days like this PPI
CPI if they present these types of
characteristics I promise you okay I
promise you if you watch other folks on
live streams that are you know YouTube
live streams
um you'll probably see them do their
worst trading in those
days and it's I'm no different in that
in that regard because as a Trader we
need fluctuation and gyration and all
that stuff and just a constant March in
One Direction you know I'm not if I'm
not in that trade to be trading the
whole daily range and I wouldn't feel
comfortable trading at 9:30 waiting for
the market to create just this little
bit of a
a little tail that's the low of the day
can it form like that sure can I'm I'm
more inclined to say okay let it rally
let it by Chase it then break down take
out some liquidity here and then if it
wants to start going higher then I'm
okay with that because we we went to a a
discount right
but you have to be comfortable
identifying where your weaknesses are
and that's the point of going slow in
the beginning and not using real money
not rushing to a demo account you have
to determine where your weaknesses and
your frailties are as a person as a
human and if you don't identify them and
develop coping mechanisms and
identifying how you're going to behave
how you going to how are you going to
keep your yourself from going on tilt
like I was talking about yesterday how
are you going to prevent yourself from
blowing the account from overtrading or
impulsively pressing the button because
you're now in a days it's called it's
like the The Fog of War when when you're
in trades and you tear yourself down
with draw down trading is not a sport
it's not a video game it's War but much
like anyone that goes through war and
I'm not claiming to know that but my
father was in Vietnam and he never wants
to talk about that stuff so so it it
bothered me I want to see how it reacts
here I like how it's doing that again I
don't want to see a trade above here it
can Wick through that that's fine
because we have this order block it can
go as much as the halfway point on the
spike of a wick but I want to see this
area here maintain the bodies or resume
and send it
lower but that I've learned that folks
that have had seen action okay where
they've been in firefights and they've
seen the the horrors of of War um they
don't like to talk about it and the
people that talk about it oh yeah I was
in this they're either talking out of
their ass making up stuff or they never
saw it at all but the same thing happens
to us as Traders when we go through a
period of severe drawdown or adversities
where you just simply can't find your
groove and the markets are
hard um that tends to create this fog of
War also where we lose our bearings we
don't really know what we're doing and
we're shell shocked and that's why
people in that condition they go on tilt
like they they don't they don't have the
capacity to think rationally because
they they're experienced horror because
they've equated the amount of money that
they lost or drill down in their account
or the account being
blown they can't think rationally that's
why you know you'll argue with your
spouse you'll be more abusive to the
people around you and more sharp and
pointed with your responses because you
view them as another distraction or
another way of bombarding you with more
stimuli and you're trying to come to
terms with what you just put yourself
through and because you put yourself
through it it's easier for you to
associate that pain and that
overwhelming you know defeat as an
external thing or something else
contributed to why it happened when it's
you that did it
so I don't even know why I'm on this
subject matter but
uh on days like this though uh it's easy
to get caught up in that because you're
you're you're most likely going into
this type of day and if you're a live
streamer you're going to feel the
impulsiveness to want to do something
because your people are watching I'm not
I'm not John Q live streamer like I'm
not I don't care if you come back and
watch the streams I don't care I don't
need to live on the money that comes
from this stuff I'm not here to try to
impress you I'm here to teach my son and
you're here just to either take notes
and see if this stuff has any value for
you or not if you don't then you won't
come back if you do you'll keep coming
back it matters not to me but to manage
all of these things and when do they
occur for me you know with 30 years
experience I've seen a lot of things in
price action and I know a little thing
here and a little thing there that tends
to work
well when do I put on the brakes and say
I don't really want to engage in price
you know what type of characteristics
tell me it's probably not a good idea
for me to take a trade if that's the
case where we have a day like today
where it's after a high impact news
driver and you already know the PPI and
CPI number especially because it's an
election year they are highly
manipulating these these reports and
it's also the fed the fed's in this
market okay and I've said this years ago
I said it in
2016 all through Trump's uh you know his
presidency they were literally just
throwing money in here and it's
artificial there's they're propping the
market up it's not none of these stocks
should be at these levels there's
literally no reason for stocks to be
where they're at they they should have
crashed years ago but because people in
high seats get paid for doing certain
things I just realized where I'm
at let me shut up before the stream gets
cut
again uh there's a high degree of
motivation for certain things to take
place and the levels of manipulation
control and rigging um like a casino
Casino um on a river booat in the old
times um I gave this analogy before on
Twitter spaces where they would have the
the rouette wheel will be rigged and and
I told you how they did it um so all
everything can be rigged everything can
be gained if there's money to be made in
it okay and obviously the biggest casino
in the world is the stock market and
next to that it's the Forex market so
all these things you know when you look
at the uh the potential
for the benefits of controlling the
outcome if you could find a way to
control the outcome or manipulate it so
heavily that an outcome is more likely
to occur uh you don't think there's
going to be people that are going to
have a vested interest in trying to see
that thing paying out like
that so because that's my perspective on
the markets it doesn't have to be for
you I mean you can go around and believe
RSI and um you know price patterns push
price
around that is what I'm thinking when I
see one-sided days where they just keep
grinding they don't have any meaningful
retracements um so I know I'm in an
environment that's highly and heavily
manipulated so I know that the odds of
me being number one accurate
two feeling comfortable holding on to
the trade because I know at any time the
market get to slip and and reverse on me
whether I'm going short or long and that
I knew that my first stop out on a day
like that when I already know if I see
the characteristics showing the signs
that I'm on a day where this isn't my
this isn't my foray like I I don't or
Forte is not my uh my strong point as a
Trader if I get a stop out is a a
realized loss on a day like that that is
like a multiplier that is extremely
painful for me that's a that's a loss
that I will beat myself up over and
that's why I tell you as soon as you
understand who you are you have to bloom
where you're planted try not to do
things that are outside your comfort
zone you don't need to do anything
outside your comfort zone because if
what you are doing is has an edge and
you don't need a very very big Edge you
just need to be able to be consistent
with it but you have to guard that edge
too you know there's there's individuals
out there to pretend to be influential
and and trade Educators they'll say you
have to you have to push your Edge when
you have it and I've always said that
that's stupidity because no one takes a
sharp edge on a knife and constantly use
it use it use it use it use it and then
never hon it rest it you take care of
the edge because you can push yourself I
have lots of tools I have lots of things
I can get into the market
with but I also know that as the
operator the person the the man that is
going to be in charge and responsible
for the outcome because I'm pushing the
buttons I'm getting in the trade I'm
placing a stop loss and moving that stop
loss I have to assume all that
responsibility so if I know and if I can
identify an environment where I know I'm
not in I'm a fish out of
water if it's a just a grinding
one-sided day if I'm not equipped to
identify early enough and have taken
partials out and profited in that move
if I get stopped out on that day and I
have already recognized that this is the
type of day it is for me those are the
worst for me that's the worst type of
day for me because whatever that
monetary loss is and it could be very
very small in my mind I will magnify
that many times over because I didn't do
what I have told myself when I was
younger as soon as I see this type of
day I have to know it recognize it and
then start taking money off the table
because every single loss on a day like
that when I was younger eventually led
to me blowing the account because I was
trying to force myself to be in
conditions that I was not comfortable in
and then I would make excuses for why
you know this didn't do that and it was
it was
me it was me that was doing it wrong and
it's a very hard thing to do when you're
learning how to do something like this
because everybody wants to be able to
fault something externally you want to
be able to say oh it wasn't my fault you
you can't blame me you know social media
you can't blame me internet friends you
can't blame me you can't blame you know
the person because that broker did it to
me or that you know something external
to yourself now you chose to put your
stop loss there or you chose not to use
a stop LW and you chose to buy that many
contracts or that many uh
Lots if you're trading Forex you're
you're making those decisions and you
have to be responsible with that so one
of one of the biggest things you're
going to have as a hurdles sun is you
need to find what those barriers are for
you where you're uncomfortable and don't
be afraid to identify them and don't
look at them when you discover what they
are and say well this is a weakness that
means you know I'm going to fail no this
is how you prevent failure because if
you go out there on your strong foot in
an area where it's quicksand for you and
you know that this is your Kryptonite
this is your weak this this is your
weakest stage to perform
on nobody in your right mind would do
that nobody a glutton for punishment
does that but see that's the that's the
very state of mind that every new Trader
and every student that comes to me with
either pre preconceived ideas on what
they think they're going to learn versus
what what they have to learn about
themselves first
all of my successful students have gone
through this process and they have in
one way shape or form communicated
openly in our community as as the
individual user groups they they can see
who shines in what user group and who
doesn't but the ones that are successful
they have been very candid about what
they see as their personal weaknesses
and they don't they don't feel any shame
in that and that's strength because what
you identified is
okay I don't want to be in a condition
if you're if you think of yourself as a
Superman or super girl Superwoman and
Kryptonite is Superman's weakness no
matter how big and bad he is okay you
put a a cornflake with kryptonite on it
he's he's nobody he's just the average
person then well as a Trader you have to
identify where your Kryptonite is and
every Trader has Kryptonite
mine are internally it's not that the
Market's beating me it's I I fall on my
own sword when I don't identify where
I'm at and what what environment and
climate I'm trading
in go back and um well you can't rewind
and by the way I got a lot of people
saying I can't rewind the the live
stream while it's going on I like to be
able to pause it and and write down my
notes and all well again I'm not here
for you
so because my son watches delayed data
he doesn't have live feed he doesn't
have you know real time price feeds he
has a delay so when he's watching the
stream if I'm pointing to something he
knows that there's a delay of however
however many minutes I don't know
exactly how many minutes it is but
there's a
delay I want him to study he knows
there's something I I commented on real
time so it's coming up and I want him to
practice seeing it materialize on his BL
chart okay so he's not doing trades he's
not even demoing he's just observing
price action to me that's the best way
of learning it beats Market replay
because Market replay is you already
know what it's done but I mentioned in
here just for the sake of our
conversation here
today I mentioned how I wanted to see it
it could Spike up with the Wix up to
consequent encroach or I'm sorry mean
threshold of the order
block let me take all this stuff off
here so how far can it color outside the
line of this uh this Gap I was
watching right there which is the
midpoint or mean threshold it trades up
to it and then dropped so we went below
this low here I like that I want to see
I would prefer it to go one more time
into this maybe uh maybe tap the low of
that candle there it doesn't have
to but right now I would like to
see clean this up I would like to see it
kind of like gravitate
to these lows and these lows so
I'll I'll highlight like
this and if you're watching I want you
to just relax okay don't
don't have high expectations don't don't
demand that it's going to pan out and
don't be afraid if it doesn't because
this is an envir I'm admitting openly to
you trying to show my son that this is
this is where dad doesn't like to trade
in I don't like to trade in these types
of days and I get a lot of questions all
the time like how do you know when to
avoid certain trading days and and what
does it look like and what does it feel
like and what are my feeling what is
what are my
concerns everything I've outlined here
and
honestly you
know if if you've been trading for a
long time and you've made money
trading I promise you in the audience
you're you're telling yourself that this
is something that you wish you would
have been exposed to sooner you probably
had to glean it from your own experience
painfully right I I would have given my
left arm for this type of teachings
because I didn't identify any kind of
hardship as a way of determining where
my weak would be so that way I can avoid
them and doesn't it make sense like um
Larry Williams gave a really funny
analogy and i' I've borrowed it many
times um he was referring to how like if
let's say you live next to uh a person
with a white pick a fence is a blue
house and I'm I'm kind of going by
memory from my lecture keynote speaker
uh event he did he talks about you know
you walk down this this road and you
pass the same house with the white
picket fence the blue vinyl siding and
whatnot and you see it's there all the
time and they have a dog that's
ferocious and it runs down to bite
anybody that comes by and too close to
that fence and you walk by and you make
the mistake of walking too close to the
fence and it bites you and and tears
into your arm okay well the next day you
get up you walk down there and do the
same thing it RS through the bandages
and tears your arm open again are you
going to do this 50 times before you get
the point you you probably shouldn't
walk so close to the fence you probably
should walk on the outside the fence
take a different route don't do that
because that is a stage for you to do
what experience some adverse reactions
so what I've done and I didn't do it
soon enough if I was being honest with
you I've spent time in my
first like quarter of my development as
a as a analyst and whatnot I wanted to
see where I was making my biggest errors
and where it was easy for me to to make
errors how can I mess it up when do I
mess it up what are the types of
climates and conditions in the
marketplace that were prevalent they're
obvious that were there all the time
when I was creating these hardships for
myself and it's some of the things I've
talked about here today
and have we moved around a little bit
sure I'm not going to argue that anybody
could see that we've had some
fluctuations in price action but it is
not clean price action meaning that it's
not going to obvious levels turning
around I mean I can talk about certain
things but you can see it's a lot of
coloring outside the lines and I had to
tell you how far do you willing to go
here I don't like that I want to be in a
situation where I can see the expected
drop and then have this level here and
it not go outside of that I prefer those
types of climates those those days where
they respect the PD arrays and it's
unable to do certain things when I would
like to see them fail because I do want
to see PD arrays fail I want to see that
because it gives me confidence that what
I'm expecting for directional runs or
where the market May draw to it gives me
confidence that that's still going to
most likely pan out and this is just
small
little you know coloring outside the
lines all right so right now it would
need to start falling out of the bed and
going lower if it's going to go lower if
it were to rally and go Above This
short-term High here now that kills it
for me and I'm done for the morning and
it kills the
session but ICT you don't you want to no
ICT would go and probably get take a
ride with my life I'll break out the 21
Corvette and can't Dr in a couple weeks
and that's what I tend to do there
there's nothing wrong with that it's my
way of dealing with an environment that
I'm not in interested
in now why would I pull the plug on my
interest on this day if it goes above
this High because we have these relative
equal lows here that we swept down below
and it's probably going to keep going
higher I'm not interested in being long
today well you know you don't know how
to draw uh you don't know how to trade
bullish markets
okay everybody has an opinion after I
say something but you're not bringing
your live stream you're not calling the
market you're not telling us what you're
doing you had the benefit of the
sidelines and
anonymity what I'm trying to do is teach
my son I'm teaching him with real
experience where I've lost real money
and I've made real money and the things
that I've exposed myself that were
barriers to me developing sooner
more
uh
comfortable um are the things of of what
I'm referring to here today which in my
opinion you know if there was a way for
me to talk about this and and I can't
write it in a book because it's too many
things that have to be referred to real
time as it's happening it needs to be a
dynamic type of
lesson but these are the types of
lessons that I can look back on with the
experience I have and how many years
looking at these freaking markets if I
would have learned these lessons sooner
or if I would have had someone tell me
this is the stuff that matters more than
anything else because this is what
wrecks you this is what takes you out of
the game there's so many things you can
do to buy sell everybody has a technique
to do it everybody does given the right
conditions you know anything can be
profitable flipping a quarter can be if
you're if you're look well when I first
started
trading you know I got lucky being a
buyer because the market was in a a
commerci b Market that means it was
going to go up
regardless and I was spending time
trying to figure out what what Market to
buy that would be better than and they
are all going up so I had a built-in
Advantage which I attributed to his
initial skill and it wasn't skill at all
it was literally me being blind
luck and that blind luck can exist for
months but when you no longer have the
conditions that are predisposed to move
in your
favor you'll find that nothing works and
that was a
very I guess
uh dis
disenchantment cu I I was like wait a
minute somebody's changed something
around here and it's because at the time
I didn't know how to trade I didn't
really know how to trade and I was just
trusting indicators crunching the data
for me and that's all it
was now looking at this day here
okay forget the fact that it's probably
going to make a higher high okay forget
the fact that it's probably going to use
that inefficiency and find some support
off of it because we cleared the the
liquidity below here and we're in my
opinion we're too far up here
again today has not been in my opinion a
day that is very easy it's not clean
it's not a fast running Market where it
knows it wants to go somewhere so I'm
not interested in pushing a button I'm
not interested in having a hard Hardline
decision I would want to see obviously I
want to see it you know trade down here
but for to come back up here and create
this run through and get that close to
that high what is
this relative equal highs after it's
taken liquidity so the the the
jaggedness is down here where is it
smooth here so can it go up here and
bump that and then go lower can can it
go about here and then run right through
this High it can so now think about what
you just did you nodded your head with
me as I was saying both what is high
prob probability trading the absence of
one of them being
true remember high probability is where
it's very very difficult to frame the
other side of the market going against
what your trade idea
is if you can only paint the scenario
that it's going to move higher and
you're trying to be a long um bullish
Trader and it's very difficult next to
impossible to frame any chance that it
goes lower unless some freak price move
comes in and that's not likely
always
um let me say that correctly it's not
potentially going to occur all that many
times but that always is a underlying
risk that it can create some wild price
action and Spike move a war type event
you know some kind of terrorist attack
that can cause a uh a shock to the
marketplace years ago we used to have
surprise rate announcements uh we don't
see that anymore that's another reason
why I know that fed's doing things that
he really shouldn't be doing they're
involved in the marketplace you they're
in it we don't have any kind of surprise
rate cut surprise uh um rate increase
you for some of you Millennials you have
no idea what I'm talking about but the
for the oldheads and audience you know
exactly what I'm talking about and that
stuff doesn't happen anymore
everything's scheduled so that means
everything is
scripted so there's no there's no chance
for the market to be dynamic and a free
market like we Rel lied to and said told
that this is what it really is when it's
not it's not been a free
market as soon as Nixon took us off the
gold standard it's been rigged but
that's another conversation for another
day I don't have time to go into all
that but we have not seen anything in
here that is quote unquote sexy and
interesting there's a
interest for me to see price go to
certain levels but it's too muddy it's
too back and forth and I have
obviously looked at my favorite live
streamers and seen what they are doing
today and if they've done anything at
all or if they made money or if they
lost I don't I don't know that obviously
you know when we're done and I get a
moment that's what I'll be checking on
I'll see you know what everyone else has
done but here today I don't have any
interest in being long even though it
could potentially make a higher high
here again if I wanted to let let me
make the argument that say
that I wanted to see it go higher which
I don't care if it does I don't want to
do it if it does go higher I don't want
to be a part of that move I would have
to take a trade based on either half of
this down closed candle here or touching
the top of that
one that means it's got to come back
down and hit that after it's done all
this to do that that means we could
trade one more time back inside this
Gap I that that's it doesn't make sense
for it to do that technically for me it
it's going if it's gone to go higher
it's done enough here by making these
relative equal lows
disrupted but I don't want to be long
because it's been one-sided all morning
and it just feels like it's petering out
there are times when it'll do these
types of things and just keep like I
said keep growing and grinding higher I
don't personally care about those days
and sometimes those days have several
hundred handles if you just would have
got in and held on to it that's
wonderful but that doesn't fit who I am
as a Trader does I don't have the the
complacency that's required to do that
because I've tried that before and I I
don't like it I don't feel comfortable
in that type of trade and I want to be
in an environment that has gyration up
and down the markets moving very fluid
higher and lower and it's very very
stilted in here see how it's just like
it's being restrained I guess that's the
easiest way to explain it so when I see
price actions showing these type of
characteristics where it just doesn't
want to do very much it's lethargic it
it runs a little bit then it comes back
in a static choppy little mess then it
runs a little bit and it comes back and
does some kind of choppy little
mess the the best lessons in your
development as a student whether it be
with me or anyone else okay if if you
can identify these types of
characteristics and signatures in the
day that you're watching price action
these are the best days for you to say
you know
what I'm probably trying to swim uphill
or upstream and I'm not a salmon okay
and if you want to be a salmon think
about what they do they bust their ass
swimming
Upstream to to spawn but then they
die so I I'm not look okay I'm all for
getting what you want to get
but there has to be some life on the
other side of that right and in trading
guess what that means you have to be
comfortable and live beyond today and we
ran one more time up above that
high after taking that
liquidity
so I'm walking you through scenarios
that don't they don't really feel
comfortable for me to engage and what
becomes problematic what this may do
where is it likely to go because if it
does this or does that why won't I take
a trade what prevents me from being
interested in the trade why something
falls out of favor while I'm watching
price those types of observations when
you're first learning they're going to
evade you because you're going to be so
fixated on finding the right fair value
Gap or finding the right pattern or some
kind of indicator setting or something
that's made available to you whenever
that's distracting you from actually
reading the price action you're actually
deferring your greater understanding and
it's divided because you have the
personal observations that you're going
to feel while you're learning and
developing and also you're trying to
also gravitate towards some kind of a
approach or model that you're going to
stick to come hell high water not change
not deviate from and it's not easy
that's the part that makes it very
expensive not just with me but no matter
what you
do in trading you're going to find that
this is a it's a truism it's it's
something that you're going to have very
very well sleepless nights and and
hardships dealing with and it's
uncomfortable and you're going to want
to find a way to get through it and get
around it and just you're not going to
be able to you go through
it let's take a quick look at the daily
before close this one up today there you
go J right off the
chart now you
see that little Gap right
there volume and balance rather I it is
a gap but this now because of what it's
done here you want to have this on your
chart all right and we will just
highlight it
that that's good I don't like yellow
but that's your daily chart that is a
volume and balance and that little
separation it's hard to see it when it's
like that right but you have to elongate
your uh your your price charts that we
can see any kind of inefficiencies and
things like that let's go back into a li
chart
okay see if that's immediate
rebalance that candle's Wick
here in this instance I wouldn't want to
see this traded back into until it did
this move up here so this this we want
to see that remain open and then reach
up into that little area right there
there's nothing wrong with missing moves
okay in the beginning you're going to
feel like you're failing if you don't
see every possible move especially if
they're moving quickly and if they have
a sudden run and they move a
lot it's hard to
uh it's hard to wrestle through that
unless you have somebody tell you in
advance that don't play so much emphasis
on that just relax and let it happen
because you're going to learn about
yourself you're going to learn about
your model you're going to learn where
your strengths are in your model
also how do you build your strengths in
your model by identifying your
weaknesses as the individual and
avoiding those because then what you
done is you removed the biggest barriers
to your progress is going to be
you and what you're going to do wrong
and when you're likely to do it wrong
this is going to be one of the most not
liked live streams but this is the one
that in my opinion this is the best
one cuz in the beginning you want to
learn how to make money you want to
learn Le how to do the right
trades not realizing
that the barriers to you getting to that
point is knowing the things that we're
talking about
today identifying problematic price
action problematic
conditions when you're not going to do
your best and for some of you you might
thrive in this type of environment like
this might be your thing like where you
like oh this is it's easy for me like I
can see this is easy for me to to
navigate this well done I'm not saying
that there isn't someone and maybe you
know large degree of my community you
know my own personal students can see
these types of days and say you know it
makes sense for me to trade these days
but when you're trading those other type
of days it don't make any sense to me
that's not something to be ashamed of
it's not something to be uh embarrassed
by it's just simply you carving and not
everybody does the same thing for a
living right take yourself out of
trading what do you do for your job what
business do you own does everybody work
in a tire shop
no that's what my son does he works at a
tire
shop how you make your bread and how you
pay your
bills is your decision how you do that
and the trading is the same thing you
you got to find your own way in this and
not everybody's going to agree with it
but are you going to stop working and
paying your bills with the income you
earn from your job because you know a
number of people say well I would never
do that
job you think
about the
the civil engineers that come around and
collect our uh our waste you know once a
week you they call them the trash
men I'm sure when they were in college
or or
school they uh they didn't aspire to do
that that but they have to make their
income right they have to make their
bills and that's what they're having to
do right
then I wouldn't want to do that job I'm
thankful that they do it
but there's a time and place for
everything and what you're trying to do
in the beginning is completely unknown
to you you don't know what you're going
to end up doing as a Trader and you have
to have some kind of a
Baseline and avoiding or trying to
ignore
uh the the barriers to your development
or the the speed bumps let's say it that
way when you have these moments where
the market just seems like it doesn't
want to do
anything every single time I put on here
and click it I got start looking at how
many seconds away is before it changes
into another candle every single time I
try to annotate something it always
moves right when I click on
it it's a conspiracy I tell you the
uh the
um the energy and the time you spend
trying to avoid all the things that you
are thinking that you're going to try to
avoid like
losing never having draw down only
winning only picking the right order
block only entering at the right time um
that is a a a Fool's errand like you're
you're trying to do something that
everybody will fail at myself included
okay but because no one's sitting down
with you when you're trying to do it and
trying to coax you out of doing those
types of silly
stuff you feel like you're going to be
the exception to the rule and I honestly
believe I was going to be that way and
you're not going to be and that's not a
knock against you it's just trying to
tell you that instead of trying to avoid
the things that are going to be
problematic try to try to avoid the
things that are going to feel like it's
harder than it needs to be you need to
grow into those periods and say okay I'm
experiencing hardship in Reading days
like this I don't know where the
Market's going to go next it tends to be
choppy and aimless like a a sail boat
without a Rudder and then all sudden it
creates these little runs that come out
of nowhere and then I get excited and I
chase that one and then it pulls back
and goes the other direction well guess
what that that's that's what I
discovered about these types of days for
me they didn't feel right for me where
every decision I was making about trying
to engage with it was not correct and
then I would
identify early on in the future those
same types of characteristics in a new
trading day and the times that I ignored
it and just pressed and and plowed into
it trying to do what I normally do I
would get hurt and I would draw the
account down or do worse and then I
would take that pain mentally and
psychologically emotionally that would
manifest into physical depression
physical ailments that eventually
started affecting my
health I would carry them into new
trading days when my model would be
there and it would be obvious that my
model should be implemented that day but
because I'm still beating myself up
about not recognizing the previous
trading session or the previous time
that I lost on when I knew that I was
identifying this is a problem day for me
so instead of trying to force myself to
perform when I wasn't doing it in front
of anybody it was just me telling myself
I had to do it and I'm giving you
permission to tell yourself you don't
have to trade every day you don't have
to have a winning trade discovered and
implemented and realized every single
day you don't need to do that Caleb I'm
not expecting you to do that I'm not
expecting you to have a high win rate
I'm expecting you to grow a little bit
be a little bit better next week than
you are this week and I know by doing
that by default you will increase in
your understanding and if you give
yourself the opportunity and flexibility
and permission to identify where where
you don't feel comfortable that in
itself is going to highlight where your
model will be
strong and it doesn't feel like that in
the beginning it doesn't feel like it's
going to work like that but that's
exactly what everybody if you go back
and look at your development if you're
if you're profitable go back and think
about the things that you felt that were
hardships and by identifying them and if
you're responsible and you're
mature you don't try to sugar coat them
you don't put blinders on or try to hide
them from people if you're going to have
a conversation about your trading and
your model you have to be honest and say
okay this is where my model's strength
is and these are the periods of time
when it doesn't Excel well but see
that's the problem with the industry
because they're never going to tell you
their personal weaknesses because that's
not a selling point that doesn't mean
hey you know this person should let's
let's subscribe to this guy's service
let's buy this guy's software program
this let's buy this signal service let's
join their Discord let's join their
mentorship let's join their
anything if they're not going to be
upfront and tell you where the strengths
are and where the weaknesses are and how
to cope with those things on an
individual basis that's not someone that
you should listen to and I mean that
wholeheartedly and you can put anybody's
name in that
statement I don't care who they are
because
you're going to get your ass handed to
you in this if you do it long enough and
how you're going to cope with that tells
the story of whether you're going to be
in for a long term or if you're just in
here just for a fling you're here for an
affair a short-term Affair and Affairs
generally don't usually work out
longterm you get something you don't
want
and I'm trying to teach my son how to
have a longterm term approach to doing
this and maybe you know he'll he'll
learn fast by doing it this way maybe
he'll go slower I don't I'm not
interested in how fast or slow I'm just
interested in consistently doing the
same thing and growing in understanding
because I know by default the time
aspect will do its job he'll know more
about himself he'll know what makes him
tick what is it that you're looking for
like what is it that you're trying to
trade on because and if you can't if you
can't draw out I did this in my private
mentorship if you can't draw out on a
napkin at lunch today pull out your pen
grab a napkin and draw
out with a a line
drawing what it is that you're doing to
be a buyer or a seller what is it that
you're identifying in price action that
your attention goes to in price what is
it that you're seeing before you PR
press the button and it's shocking to
see how many people can't do that and
then they wonder why they can't find
profitable trades cuz if you can't
articulate in a very simple line drawing
what it is you're trying to capitalize
on where your stop loss would
be where's your first Target and where
is it trying to go to if you can't
physically draw that out then how could
you possibly
articulate or expect expect to see it in
price action if you can't articulate it
in a simple line
drawing you ever think about it like
that for some of you you're thinking
well you know I I don't know I don't
really know how to describe it with a
line draw I can't draw it and that's why
you can't make money that's why you
can't keep a demo account without
blowing it that's why you can't pass a
funded account challenge that's why even
if you got lucky and you got a funded
account that's why you lost it and you
lost that funded account because you
don't know what you're looking
for and when we sit down to a price
action like this I highlight things that
I like to see based on numerous
models but if none of the models that I
like and can Implement are speaking in
terms of it's obvious this is what the
market is going to do right
now then I I have to sit
still and I'm going to let the market do
whatever it's going to do and it's going
to do it without me it's not I'm not
trying to make money off of it I'm not
trying to lose any uh
lose any sleep over having the right or
wrong expectation over the marketplace
because I'm live streaming in front of
you I'm telling you what matters more
knowing and identifying these types of
days if it's against the grain for you
as a
Trader anybody that makes money folks I
I'll just say it like this anybody that
makes
money would not look at anyone and and
if they were honest in social media or
if they're being honest in front of
you know someone in industry and you met
them for you face to face I would talk
the same way like I'm doing right here
if I met
you this is this is the reality but
anyone that makes money would never look
at you and be condescending to you or
say well you know you suck you know
anyone that does that type of stuff I
promise you they're not
profitable and they're wearing a mask
online and the ones that make money
would have a higher regard and respect
for you if you spent time articulating
not hiding not pretending it don't exist
where your weaknesses are as a Trader
and where your models are
weak because if you understand where
your model is
weak you can do things to
manage and avoid those conditions that
you have seen and measured by logging
and journaling and that's the benefit of
ding I've seen so many ass clowns out
there say saying I don't Journal that's
the stupidest thing in the world I'm in
here to make money show us you make
money these are the same people that
never show a trade they don't even
record it they don't show it after the
fact they don't do nothing but they
always got an opinion and the problem is
is because social media is so impactful
everyone because they're trying to learn
this and they're their confidence level
in themselves very low and if there's
someone pretending to be a very
hard like very uh
argumentative or troll or or something
like that or Troublemaker Just a plain
Troublemaker um when anyone comes at
them with any kind of adversity or any
kind of sharp toned response or say well
you know you suck or this that again
these are the same people that
absolutely are [__] failing on every
level okay but you tend to have a little
bit more concern about those individuals
because you're in a you're in a moment
of weakness because you can't come back
at them and say I don't know what you're
talking about cuz here's what I make
here's what I've done and I'm going to
do it live today or I'm going to do this
tomorrow and I'm going to prove it and
let's see you do it and then they run
away they hide they clam up and they've
got nothing to
say but you end up taking the opinions
or the concerns that other people have
because they're
miserable and social media Fosters this
type of climate which is the most toxic
thing in the world for Traders
you're inviting people in a conversation
that never was
invited you didn't start trading so you
can impress everybody on the internet
that's just one sub little thing that
it's an addition to because you you want
to make
money that's why you're here you want to
be able to make money you want to be
able to capitalize on moves and price
action that
repeat and you want to be able to feel
confident when you do it but in the
beginning you're not you're not going to
be confident in the beginning
and everybody on social media is Waring
against other people I have own I have I
have students now that are trying to
talk [__] about me because they want to
Garner attention around their mentorship
but they're teaching my
mentorship make that make
sense the point
is do not invite other people into the
conversation okay now obviously I'm I'm
allowing other people to hear my
conversation with you Caleb
but I don't care because these people
that listen to me they can talk [__]
they can make videos they can do
anything they [__] want okay none of
that's changing anything it's not doing
anything it's just putting a bullet
point list of everything they are weak
at they're watching my streams I'm not
watching their [__] they're in here
learning just like you are and but
they'll never admit it because their EG
too inflated on no skill
they have no reason to be arrogant they
have no reason to be conceited or
self-centered they're
failures and they're the ones with the
biggest bark they're the ones with the
biggest mouth and they consistently are
being exposed as a [__]
failure so don't invite any other person
in your conversations that's why the
comment sections are not open on these
live streams I don't want you seeing any
comments and there's a lot of them I'll
be honest with you there's a lot of them
that are encouraging you along and
they're being very thankful that that
you asked to go through this again and
that you made it where you are allowing
other people to to hear what I say to
you but there's two or three that come
in every day and they're in there
sucking themselves
off but they're from accounts with no
content and the accounts were just made
so that tells you that they're little
dick energy boys so
if you're going to look at days like
this and say you know what ICT says this
is not his cup of tea I'm going to go in
and make it my cup of tea guess what I
ain't got no problem D I did that stuff
in the beginning with Larry Williams if
he said he couldn't do something that
was like oh man I don't know where I'm
going I'm G that was my best inspiration
because he gave me a starting
point and all I'm doing by having these
live streams with you Caleb is to give
you a starting point on how to read
price action and then understanding when
to sit
still when to sit
still why does it make this why does it
make sense to sit still and when does
that change when can we anticipate
something that's
measurable okay um when we were trading
down here I wanted to see it trade up
into here and this Gap offer some kind
of a resistance because then that would
have indicated that all of this was
built in It's like a premium they pushed
price up and trap Trader there and now
it should try to retrace to a Deeper
Discount and remember I was aiming for
this down here this was my initial and
this is where my I still think this is
still plausible may not need to do it
today it could be a response to
tomorrow's data
um but once we showed this move outside
of here and we had this close right
there see how that closed above that if
I had a trade okay if we were trading
short
and I had used this area here as a
stop if it closed here I would kill the
trade I would not I would save the stop
because if it's if it's closing up here
chances are it's going to do what it's
going to come back down here and treat
this as support I'm not go back and
listen to the stream you'll be able to
see it in the recording I'm not
interested in being a buyer today that's
what I stated and I said I would have to
consider potentially seeing a stop that
would have to go maybe into this Gap
again and I'm not it wouldn't it
wouldn't make sense for me to have a
trade that like
that so if it's going to go up you know
it'll go up just by going into this this
Gap here and reach for this high and
then we went back out to a daily chart
and I show you the volume in Balance we
highlighted it and it went right to
consequent encroaching the midpoint of
that right
here and look how it's behaving
now off of a gap here that I said I want
to see that stay open did it stay open
yes it stayed open until we traded up
into that daily uh volume
imbalance
so I don't know why my girls upstairs
are barking like crazy but they must see
deer every time they see a deer they
like they want these things to bark back
at them and when they don't they go
crazy the
uh the times in which we can see price
action I'll just kind of like say what I
saw in a a statement yesterday from one
of the young ladies that are watching
these these lessons um I'm assuming it's
a lady the the photo on their YouTube
channel it shows a woman it's like a
meditation Channel and relaxation
Channel and they put up content around
relaxing and she mentioned in her
comment that uh she's she's just started
watching in February this year and she
likes the idea and the approach that I'm
using and teaching and she can see the
stuff panning out and and she's now
already made progress in a funded
account so and she mentioned how she's
encouraged because she's able to help
her her children you know and make her
ends meet ma'am I don't know your name
but I love I I was half tempted to
screenshot that and put it up and the
reason why I didn't do it is because
when I support the women in our
community and not just my personal
Community but when I when I support the
ladies
jerks and perverts always take that out
of context okay like for instance Tanya
she she reminds me of my daughter that
doesn't mean I'm sexually attracted to
my daughter okay but if you watch her
live streams in the chat window it's
very vulgar nasty stuff that goes on and
said to me and said to her and I
encourage her because she's a lady okay
and I don't want people coming to my
channel thinking that it's just a man's
world here it's not my best students are
the ladies
and it's it's still true my best student
is a woman because she doesn't have a
phus she doesn't have to measure up to
anybody she's providing and that message
that you left me and I read it is just
true and you mentioned you just started
watching me this year in February so you
don't know that I've said that in Years
Gone by where women tend to be better
Traders because they're not trading for
ego purposes they they don't win then go
on the internet and say haha look at
this they're not barbarians they're not
Gladiators they do this to
provide provide what provide nesting
that's what women think like okay men
are cavemen we go out we grab our club
we leave the cave GA and bonk something
over the head and drag it back to the
cave and we eat we feed our families
women don't think that way they have to
be much more careful and calculated so
if they're going to be out there then
for the family they're going to do
things in measured risk and they're
going to be cautious and they're not
going to go out there and Flash it and
say haha look at I just caught and
killed I'm going to go not take it back
to my house and and feed my kids you're
being much more prudent and your message
ma'am was so perfectly Illustrated of
the very thing I've said many times and
the men they take odds at that because
they think that it's supposed to be like
football like we're all supposed to like
the same football team or that ICT is
team
okay I'm a man ICT is not a a tribe okay
it's it's not a community I'm Inner
Circle Trader I'm that person and you
take this content and you make it yours
and you apply it to increase and and
build up your your net worth your legacy
you build a legacy for your family a
network that your children can glean
from and I just want to let you know
that I when I saw your comment I was
going to screenshot it and put on my
community post but I was like if I do
that number one it's just going to open
up another can of
worms I don't want people going through
your channel and then leaving you know
nasty comments because they're jealous
okay but just know that I I I read your
comment and I get a lot of them I get a
lot of them from from women and I want
to encourage the ladies
because sometimes how I talk it's it's
almost like locker room okay I don't
always choose the I'm trying very hard
today I don't know if you notice it or
not because when I ended the stream
yesterday I I told the Lord before I
started yesterday I was like try to keep
me from cursing like because I don't
like doing it but when I get one side or
the other on the Spectrum um I get a
little imbalanced in One Direction or
the other and then I'll reach for words
that I'm not proud of after it's done
and they're always in my recordings even
in the videos that you watch later on
that were pre-recorded I'm always
talking like that because I get animated
and then I go back and I say okay let me
say that again but I edit that part out
but when I'm live like this you
shouldn't be listening to me or watching
me when you're around your kids because
I'm probably going to say something that
I wouldn't want younger children like I
have my niece my young niece living with
me so I have to move myself away where
she can't be an earshot when I do this
because I know I'm going to use language
that I don't want her to hear so I know
enough that I shouldn't do it but I'm
human and I mess up so and I don't
usually use this language unless I'm
talking about
trading I can go all day long if I'm not
talking about trading I'll rarely ever
use these types of words but
because it Taps into a time that's very
Primal for me where I had to struggle to
get to to this level of understanding
and I had to go through a lot of
hardships and it wasn't easy for me so I
feel
like you know I'm back in that Arena
again so it goes along with it
and there's a way to do this without
doing that stuff and the ladies the
women in my community they tend to
listen better than the men and they go
through the motions of identifying when
I'm talking about where things are
problematic where they were problematic
for me um it resonates with them because
they don't try to hide their
Frailty they say this is where I'm weak
at and they don't they don't view it as
telling me it's a weakness and therefore
they they expect to fail on the basis of
that they say this is a weakness how can
I come you how can I cope or overcome
that or replace it with something else
and that's the reason why I talk the way
I talk because in my lectures I don't
want to just point to something
technically because having something
technically in the chart doesn't
necessarily mean that you're equipped to
do anything with it and then what
happens if it doesn't work out in your
hands what are you left with you you
have to you have to resolve
that some way shape or form and what are
you going to lean on your emotions your
frustration as I was talking about
yesterday
so anyway I I felt like I want to toss
that in there because I I get a lot of
comments and 98% of them are
either saying thank you this is
happening or telling me what they've
already learned and they're appreciative
of it the other portion is why isn't
there any comments
and or can you do Forex and I told you I
would mention and talk about Forex one
time but it's going to be towards the
end okay I'm not interested in trading
Forex but I know a lot of you are only
trading the asset class these things
still work there too so don't think that
it's just the one trick pony my my stuff
unless I tell you specifically during
the the lecture point that it's only
specific to one asset class um it's
Universal so just just think about it as
its time and price and price is price
doesn't matter what we're dealing with
if it's trading and it makes a chart
it's going to work off of this because
everything is algorithmic I'm just not
convinced that crypto is running on the
same wavelength let's put it that
way all right so uh anyway what you can
do is you can screenshot where we talked
about this level in
here and it created that little tiny
institutional order flow entry drill so
in your
notes you want to have um
whenever's a fair value Gap like
that that low all it takes is trading
one tick below
that and that when it does that that's
an Institutional orderflow entry drill
how would you use institutional
orderflow entry drill as an
entry well when you anticipate a gap
staying open but you think it may trade
higher in this case tra you trading up
to this area here so I drew all this out
here and I told you that I want to see
this stay open that means I don't want
to see the difference between this
candle's high and that candle's low I
don't want to see it trade down like
this in other words I I don't want to
see this type of
thing well I'm not sure it's going to
even let me do it
but well I don't want to see do that
like come down and completely lay over
top
of that uh that lower level line I want
to see it can come down into it a little
bit like it does here maybe even trade
down to the halfway point which is
consequent
encroachment but I don't want to see it
trade all the way down into it so if I
ever am watching price action and you'll
see this in the live stream so you'll
hear me talk about it where I'll say I
want to see this remain unfilled or left
open it's because I want to see it do
this very thing here and as soon as you
hear me say this this is where you write
this stuff down in your your notes folks
because you'll you'll hear me say it
again but for the folks that are
watching me do this for the first time
and they record it and then they hear me
say it again they it proves that it's
the same logic I'm not I'm not
cherry-picking things I'm not you know
making stuff up as I go it's the
same protocol all the time but there are
times where I want to see it close in
because I want to see it
fail that's something for your notes
too the inefficiencies that stay open
are going to act like real support or
resistance because this is acting as a
breakaway
Gap why should I expect this I know
you're thinking okay so I get it ICT I
wrote it down but why did you expect it
to stay open because I get this question
so many times and even in the lectures
when I talk about it like I'm doing here
I will still
see I almost said something rude now I
probably will I'm going to publicly
shame
you I'm going to screenshot it and put
now see you're going to do it now
because you want your name to appear in
my community but I was thinking I'm
going to shame you and uh and show you
that you're asking something I talked
about in the very lecture when I talked
about the very thing you're mentioning a
concern about which is I get this
question a lot how do I
know which fair value Gap won't fill in
okay um if we were in a a
classroom and I said okay raise your
hand if you don't know when to do
that most most everybody would probably
raise their hand and I get that same
type of thing in the comment section
they'll say how do you know that that
fair value Gap doesn't or won't likely
close in like what gives you that that
uh discernment what makes you say that
that you can trust that well we've
Consolidated like this here and my
attention was around this level here not
enough to take a trade but I want to see
does it repel this and start to break
down before I go any further on that if
it would have started the breakdown I
would have dropped down into a 15-second
chart used the fair value Gap and
outlined that down into the level I was
looking for
over here and then here but it it didn't
give me that retrace back to it and
break down because we're looking at on a
one minute chart then I could drop down
to a 15sec chart and use that and teach
on the price delivery Continuum Theory
so all that means is it sounds like
mumbo jumbo but it's basically
understanding one time frame and
breaking that run that you see beginning
on one Higher time frame in this case
the one minute chart I can drop down to
a 30 second a 15sec a 5sec chart and
find multiple entries in that delivery
while that price run is unfolding you're
getting lots of opportunities to get
involved in that move and still not
technically be chasing the marketplace
but there's a threshold at which you got
to stop and if you've seen my lesson on
pyramiding when to stop adding to the
the trade and making it larger
it's the same premise there okay so
you'll see me teach on it and next time
you're going to get next I didn't say it
again but I'm trying not to be too
redundant but there's enough redundancy
here to prove that it's the repeating
phenomenon in logic but why did I talk
about this staying open before going up
into this area here because we've traded
above the consolidation all of this
right here let me let me do it like
this all this price action here
we've traded higher since
9:30 here up back down trade higher
consolidating okay I don't like these
kind of days and I would rather wait for
more information or do nothing because
on a day that's showing me that it's not
trying to gate around too much it's
small and
compressed it's a lot of um stagnant
price action whereas when it does
finally move here outside of that
range we had the stops below here taken
out as I
mentioned and then we traded above the
high okay wonderful once it does that
that means we left this consolidation
did we leave the consolidation after a
stop hunt
yes so that means once we're outside of
this range and if we have a fair value
Gap those tend to be left
open so what does that mean you can feel
not today not on a day like to this but
you're going to see me talk about on
other days where there hasn't been a big
PPI number CPI number something that
effect where we move outside of a range
and we have the same element here this
is something you can go back and look at
your old charts maybe it's a trade idea
that you lost one or maybe you missed a
move or maybe you didn't know what the
market was going to do and you can go
back and look at your old charts and see
this here and you'll see that they stay
open t not all the time but most of the
time
if it's something like this and you
anticipate them staying open and you
have a Target up here that you think is
going to draw price
to you can put this candlestick's low
your limit order right at that
candlestick's low because then it only
takes one tick to get below it to fill
you long and then aim for your your
target now this is like a bread and
butter type setup where it's not a whole
lot of movement it's not a whole lot of
range but you can see we did trade all
the way to the top of that volume
imbalance on the daily chart so this one
for your purposes and exercise of
logging it you want to make sure your
charts all the way over the the whole
real estate of your chart you don't want
to have your charts like this Caleb
because if I start seeing it it's going
to drive me nuts the whole chart from
the beginning of the move down here to
the Target and make sure your chart is
really filled up it's showing you a nice
range that way you can see the prices
over here and it gives you lots of
places where you can write and annotate
okay
but when it's open like this you can use
institutional order for entry drills
which is a partial entry into a fair
value Gap that you believe strongly is
not likely to completely fill in now you
will see these setups form and you will
enter with institutional order for entry
drill as your entry model just like um
any other model any other entry
technique okay but it's a very specific
element of anticipating fair value gaps
that you believe will not close up or
fill in like like in here so if you see
those and I talk
about many times in my examples either
audibly in in like a review or when
we're watching recordings or tape
reading you'll hear me say I want to see
this stay open when I was doing Twitter
spaces and I was calling every
individual one minute candle I'd say
note
candle at 10:47 a.m. 1 minute basis okay
NQ
and then I'd say I want to see that one
stay open or remain unfilled that's the
equivalent of me saying when we're
watching it live down here I want to see
this one stay open I don't want to see
it fill in and it doesn't Okay that
proves there's logic there it's that
means there's something behind what
price is doing that's causing me to say
those things it's not me just pulling
[__] out of my ass and just saying hey
you know I want to talk and and hear
myself talk I'm drawing your attention
to something that I know with experience
will most likely present this okay
contrast that with all of everything
else that was going on prior during the
the beginning of the stream I was in
observation mode I want to see this I
want to see that because if it does this
then I'll have more information I have
no Hardline fast this is what it's going
to do until we had that then I said I
want to see this stay open and we're
going to likely drw in the that daily
volume in balance is it something I'm
going to trade no I'm not interested in
being long but ICT it's moved up 30 40
handles By Me By Now why didn't you take
the trade because it's going against my
comfort level I don't want to take this
trade I I can I can make all the points
and handles I want just on Friday and
not do anything today tomorrow or
Thursday that's the benefit of knowing
that this stuff repeats
you don't have that you think that every
time you're is something forming in
price action and I'm talking about it
live something happens in your head
where you think this is the only time
it's going to work or this is the only
time that I have the opportunity to use
this information and I need to I need to
hear him say this is a buy or sell I
need him to tell me where the stop loss
because you think that there's nothing
else ever going to repeat in this like
this is the only opportunity and the way
you get past that is the doing what
we're doing
here like if if you stopped watching the
stream you come back later on because
you know you don't see any value in this
you clearly are not ready to learn
you're not because this is the part that
everybody has to do with me and I forced
my paid students our live streams or my
live stream that I was doing with them
was me doing this with
them and the first the first group of
individuals I had people
quit to the tune of like 150 people in
the first 60 days because they wanted a
signal service when I told them there
was no signal service I'm going to show
you characteristics in price action and
I want you to log them and you're going
to see over time certain things tend to
repeat and the things I'm referring to
in price action you're going to identify
on a personal level that it makes sense
to
you where other things you may not be
all that interested in and you filter
those things out and you work on
whatever PD array what specific
principle of the price action that you
see that is obvious to you it's jumping
off the chart that means that your
concern is around that very function in
price delivery and that is the beginning
Foundation to your model your first
model it may not be the be all end all
that you you retire yourself with it may
not be the thing that you make the most
money with it just means that that's
your starting
point so I'm forcing Caleb into fair
value Gap because that's what I want to
focus on and it just makes it easy
because if I got to go through this
again with them I'm going to do it where
it's more comfortable for me and you
know it's up to him to to keep
up but for everyone else outside of him
because he's my son I can exercise the
role of dad even though he's in his mid
20s I'm just going to say look I'm Dad
this is the way going to be you know if
we're going to do this we're doing it my
way and for everyone else just default
back to what I've said many times in
other lectures and mentorship uh
teachings is that I'm inviting you as
the viewer as the student when you come
here you you're not paying for the
lessons you do have to listen to things
that are
important and the main takeaway is it's
allowing you to find the best fit
technically out of all the things I
teach which one makes the most sense to
you not it doesn't diminish the
effectiveness or efficacy of any
anything else that I use or teach it
just means that you're going to cut to
the chase you're going to get right to
the point kind of what most people want
me to do when I'm teaching um if you
comment and say I talk too much you I
broom you in the comment section too I
never get to see your comments ever
again because if you're rude enough to
say [__] like that you never get a
chance to have my attention so
for
you because I'm
so interested in teaching you every
facet to what it is going on in the
chart and how to focus in on what you
should be doing individually but me
having no impact on
that you have to be determined what it
is that you like I'm going to walk you
through this price run and show you how
many examples there are that you could
arrive at so it kind of gives you like a
baseline okay now I know what he's
talking about so now I'm going to start
doing those things and start seeing or
start seeing the the gravitation towards
one PD don't try to force yourself into
it because I said I'm forcing Caleb in
it so therefore that's the secret sauce
no you you might be doing something
entirely different and I and I'll show
you what I mean in a moment but for the
sake of the
discussion you want to be able to
present yourself with that
opportunity for you to pick what it is
that you see by Nature by the very fact
that you're watching price action and
I'm commenting on it and this is what I
think the price is going to do and this
is what it shouldn't
do when I say those things and and the
price starts to march to a specific
level and if you see something that I
teach as a PD array I'm probably not
going to key up a whole lot of interest
around it because I'm forcing Caleb to
look at the Gap hence this one running
to here that's the that from
here to here that's all I would expect
for
Caleb that's it and we waited
until 10:52 which is inside the macro
for 11 o'cl 10:50 till 11:10 there's
going to be a run on liquidity or run to
inefficiency I'll walk you through that
macro before I close this one but the
the idea is you want to see what where
does your
attention jump to even if I'm talking
about price action and I'm referring to
something your attention may go and go
right to something else that I teach
like it's an order block um a stop run
um like this here institutional order
entry
drill for for students of mine that know
what an Institutional Oro in drill is
like my my private mnship students as
soon as I outlined the fear value Gap
you're you're probably you probably
already saw that before I even started
mentioning it but anytime I say a fair
value Gap that or an imbalance should
stay open what I'm saying is this this
is for your
notes if it's something that's acting as
a premium array meaning that it's
trading up to it which is the opposite
of this because we traded up and we're
trading back down into it the most
sensitive area in that fair value Gap is
going to be the midpoint to the high of
it here which is this candle low so even
if it did trade down into it if I'm
wrong about it not staying completely
open and it trades down to the low it
matters not because I'm going to get
filled either at that candle's low or
just above the consequent cach or
midpoint between the candle's High here
and the candle's low so halfway in
between my fill will always be in that
area I am never trying to get a fill at
the low
end because I I've seen many times that
the market won't go down there or if it
goes down there it won't fil me because
of the spread
so I'm not trying to frustrate myself so
I want to get in with the lwh hanging
fruit opportunities of Entry the low
resistance barriers to entry that means
the easiest one that the spread won't be
a factor for I won't have to be perfect
I don't have to demand Precision okay to
me this is precise
enough knowing that if if I believe that
this Gap is going to stay open and and
have some measure of openness or that's
not completely filled in what am I
saying by default I'm saying that
halfway between this candle's
low and this candle's
High halfway point which is consequent
encroachment it's going to go no lower
than one tip below consequent
encouragement meaning that I have to
find a fill if I'm going to go long at
that midpoint to this candle's
low there's nothing wrong with going one
tick as your lemon order Above This
candle's low also that really assures
that even if you just book this price
low chances are you're probably going to
get a fill worst case scenario if it
goes one tick below it then you should
have no problem getting
filled but I've been in the market with
real accounts with limit orders where
the market has spread two ticks beyond
my limit order and it still did not fill
me and it ran without me so it doesn't
guarantee that you're going to get in
which is why I always try to use and
teach lwh hanging fruit objectives for
targets and the same thing happens for
entries we're looking for the lowest
resistance and or barrier to getting in
trade so what's if if we believe that
this is going to stay open
Caleb where would you place your limit
order to get in as a buy if you're
trying to aim for this volume and
balance as I
outlined before it traded
there is it going to be you're using
that low as your limit order or you
going to use one tick above it and just
feel comfortable with absorbing any of
that extra draw down being willing to
see it trade down to the low because it
could Spike down there and do that and
still still trade up there but your stop
has to be below this candle's
high so the risk is defined by okay
let's say it like this look at this
value up here okay right above where I'm
showing you my
cursor that low is 18931 even so your
limit order could be uh
93125259
ticks you got nine ticks four ticks
makes up a handle so it's that's nine
ticks traversing in price so you're
absolutely getting in
there so what is a low resistance
barrier uh entry approach to using that
institutional orderflow entry drill and
that sounds like a whole lot of stuff
sounds technical don't it technical
science how about that Anton Creo we're
not talking about technical science you
might not be talking about that over in
Goldman Sachs baby but over here it's
technical science okay
but I can't believe he just talked about
Anton he's here real so this entry model
here you have to anticipate expect and
welcome and afford yourself the amount
of draw down that could take place
because it could come down here and
touch the low of that but in my mind
because I've been doing it long enough
and you will discover this too over time
that the market is controlled
algorithmically and because of that
these types of events are true if you're
correct and let's just just go back on
that for a second no matter how you
trade before you enter a trade you have
a religion you have a faith based model
that what you're pressing the button on
you have faith that it's going to do
something because you believe it will
okay I don't have Blind Faith I have
data I have statistical probabilities
that over 30 years I've noticed these
observations tend to be more apt to be
correct than they're
not and I've transferred this
information and logic and process and
guidance to other people all around the
world in different walks of life and
they are able to take this information
and make money with it because it
repeats okay so if the markets are not
algorithmic then how do you explain that
these are very specific elements nobody
Chris Lor didn't talk about
this the guy he learned from doesn't
talk about
it it's not in books I mean it's all on
Amazon now with my name and logo all
over it you know repeating everything I
talked about in lectures like this one a
lot of things I said in this one are
going to be in books on Amazon but uh
it's probably going to be one of the
better books because if they do it
verbatim you're GNA have a really good
psychological book but uh that's it he
just gave me the permission to write a
psychology book I
psychology whatever
the lower portion of that Gap I'm not
interested in seeing it trade down there
but guess what I'm doing I'm I'm
affording myself the flexibility should
it do so it would not freak me out if
it's a day where I'm willing to be long
okay
so Caleb needs to determine if he's
going to use the low of that candle when
there's a likelihood of a gap not
filling and it trades down into it okay
the best fills are going to occur at the
midpoint which is consequent
encroachment to the high of that
Gap and the least probable fill is going
to be in the lower half because you're
probably not going to get filled why
because this Gap formed after leaving
this
consolidation so therefore this Gap
should
behave it should behave as a breakaway
Gap it's breaking away from this
consolidation see but the folks that
listen to me or watch what I do they
think it's either supplying to me
because I'm drawing rectangles and and
over certain specific candles and it's
not supply and demand because supply and
demand is a [__] myth unless we're
talking about Commodities because that's
a real thing that's the grocery store of
the world there's real supply and demand
factors in that market but everything
else is it's not it's supply and demand
it's
controlled it's it's
controlled now I guess to some degree
Commodities are controlled too but
there's real supply and demand factors
with commodities there's really no need
to be buying a share of stock there's
really no need to be buying gold it's a
proed form of of money but that's
getting ready could to be zero too you
know when the Lord comes back and I know
you don't care to hear about this but
he's coming back soon when he does your
silver and gold is going to be cast in
the street because it's not going to
save anybody wealth wealthy people in
the last days are not going to be
comfortable they're not okay that's why
I claim not to be
here
so watch my personal YouTube channel if
you don't want to know more about that
but this leaving of that consolidation
you're breaking away from that if it's
not supply and demand that people say
I'm trading with they're saying that I'm
trading uh support and resistance so if
this is the resistance here Why didn't
it come back down and touch it because
it's not support and resistance that
makes markets go up and down the
elements of this inefficiency
identifying it as I mentioned in the
live stream it you'll be able to record
I not record you'll be able to rewind
the the stream when it's done when it
when the session's ended
um within five minutes or so usually I
have to grab a drink or something then
I'll go into the settings and I'll add
it to the playlist for uh 2024
mentorship if you if you have
uh bookmarked the playlist every day
when the live stream's done you can find
that live stream that was made that day
in the playlist in the order of their
you know production so that way you can
go back and listen to everything and and
do all your not take and whatnot but the
Breakaway gaps okay when I'm when I'm
referring to anything like this where
it's not likely to
fill that's your key that's your like
okay that means institutional orderflow
entry drill okay unless I say that this
Gap should stay open or
unfilled you're never looking at
institutional order for ingal that's not
the go-to now let me let me backpedal
just a little bit for the folks that
like this idea because you might think
okay well I'm going to use that as my
entry technique and even if it's a fair
value Gap that I may not say I want to
see it remain open there's nothing wrong
with that per se if that's your entry
model um if I'm building a position and
say this Gap is larger okay say it's a
little bit
wider I will use institutional order for
entry drill as my first entry six
contracts long and it May dig down into
consequent encouragment or the upper
quadrant and then I'll add four more and
then if I really like what it's doing in
there or if we enter in between uh like
say like this say it goes in
at um
10:47 say this time was 10:47 and then
at 10:49 it went down into consequent
encouragement and then at
1051 it trades down into one tick below
consequent encroachment I'll add five
contracts on that one even though I'm
underwater a little bit on the six
contracts and underwater maybe a tick or
two on the the trade that I added four
on that would be 10 contracts then I can
go in with a five lot when it goes to
one tick below consequent encroachment
with the same assumptions that this
lower portion is going to stay open I've
built in a
position okay but what I just described
you won't be able to do that with one
particular funded account company like
you can't add they call that averaging
in and it's just building your
position you
can you can avoid that by just simply
not doing this type of of of trading
just do one entry use your institutional
or entry drill as your only entry and
then add your trade you pyramiding in at
a higher place okay like this order
block here this order block and fair
value Gap here you know all all those
subsequent later and higher PD
arrays you can participate with that
particular fun you know what I'm saying
what company is I'm not going to mention
them here because I don't want to sound
like I'm affiliate or or repping them
and the only reason why I brought up top
step is because Caleb said that's the
one he's going to use okay so it's not
that I'm trying to funnel anybody there
that's not the point but I'm sure
they're probably tickled it I keep
mentioning him but you know if he has a
bad experience you'll hear about
it so uh
the the institutional order flow entry
drill is more specific to when we like
to see a gap stay open so if it does get
below that low and enters into it the
underlying assumption is is that you
think that this is going to somehow
Remain the lower half open okay some
portion of this gap between these two
candles isn't going to be completely
overlapped with sside delivery that
means the market moving
lower if this is not your cup of tea and
you can't see that okay then you would
be trading order blocks okay and that
would be this candle right there and
that candle right there and that candle
right there because all three of these
Candles Are All One odor block meaning
that this order
Block it's not just the last down Clos
candle before the run
up these three consecutive candles are
trading back down into this Gap that has
already been primed to price higher and
we're just getting one more visit here
and then it trades above it and it comes
right back down and digs into this
entire range
here see that so if you look at it like
this can you tell I'm having fun today I
was supposed to get out of here at 10:30
what time is it it's almost noon I had
some people complaining can you make
your videos shorter I can't watch all
this I can't help you man go watch
somebody else go learn from somebody go
watch the five- minute trainer people
and never make any money never learn how
to do it this this open
price all part of these consecutive
candles okay that open price is the
change in the state of delivery that
means the algorithm sees these three
candles and goes right to that opening
price what makes these three candles the
order block is because we have a fair
value gap down here the momentum is
shifted higher this should stay open
trades down and touches the top of it
and starts to move higher away from it
it does so okay when this
candles I'm sorry this candle's open
price when that is
breached that validates this order block
think about what I taught you yesterday
in the live stream how my entry
mechanism was for the initial entry in
six contract short on
inq the same logic is being shown here
just reversing it now
look at that opening price through all
of this back and forth price action see
that I'm not supply and demand okay I
don't give a [__] what anybody else says
Sam sidon see seems like a pretty nice
guy the few video clips people sent to
me said you took this video
[__] this is not supply and demand
I'm cutting through
candles I'm I'm labeling an order block
based on a supporting PD it's not a be
all Standalone type thing it's never an
order block is never an island of of
unto itself but when you watch these
multi-level marketing [__] okay
these 20-year olds that talk like
me they talk like me and they promote
these ideas and understandings that are
incomplete because they don't know what
the [__] they're talking about see here
we go again let me dial it back in
forgive me Lord I'm trying I'm trying
I'm
trying when you have this opening
price you want to extend that to the
right and then study how price respects
and and deals with it the Wicks are
always allowed to do the damage but look
what the bodies are doing the bodies are
staying in the upper
half of the bodies the bodies tell you
the narrative okay so if you take that
range it's do it like this let me let me
let me make it a little bit taller so
you can see what I'm referring to you're
getting lessons on order blocks and even
ask for it today some of you ask for it
but that's not why I'm doing it it's
just I feel like teaching
today so we have the body on the open
down
to this close on the lowest down closed
candle that range okay that range is
where the narrative is going to be seen
you're going to you're going to see what
if this is an order block these things
I'm going to show you right here they're
going to be present
okay extend that
forward the body stops right there at
that open but what does the wick do
trades
down this candle is up close it it
doesn't matter it doesn't mean anything
this candle trades down into the open
plus a ticker two and it trades higher
then we trade down again what is it
doing it sends the body into the upper
half between that candle's open and this
candle's closed
that red line look at what's going on
there where are the bodies of the
candles any down move back into that
range where are the bodies they're in
the upper
half so you don't have to sweat picking
the best best best entry if you know
what my order blocks are and you really
won't know everything about until the
books come out what are you release in
the books I I never realized that
writing a
book with I guess the community I have
and trying to get them to do what I want
them to do like I want to
cover the way I want to cover and
they're like well you know your your
your percentage is going to be lower for
this it's a lot of bickering back and
forth I want what I want so I understand
you want anything you You' take it as a
rag if I gave it to you because you just
want to learn the information but I want
I want my first book to be a specific
way so we're kind of arguing about what
they're willing to do and what I want
done and if it doesn't work the way I
want then I'm going to use another
publisher not that I'm going to be a New
York's seller's best list type thing but
uh what I want is what I want so the
opening price extend that through you
can see all the bodies are are working
inside that but the Wicks are allowed to
do the damage but they're never piercing
the bodies low see
that and then over here what time is
that
oh it's so [__] good isn't
it isn't that delicious look at that
1110 what do you think's happening right
there the algorithm that most people
don't want to believe it opens it sends
the price down into that opening price
right there we're cutting through
candles
Sam we're cutting through it okay
there's no W off here but that opening
price that's the sensitive price point
and that's the change in the state of
delivery meaning that that right there
any return to that price and or into the
upper half of that consecutive down
closed candles and I know some of this
is going to be very confusing especially
if you're brand new because when we were
talking about Fair B guys you're like I
get this this makes sense but this is
just for the folks that have been around
for a while with me and they've seen me
talk about ICT order block and they
talked about it in other circles where
you know it's this it's always he talks
about this down closed candle but it's
not always this one but when he use when
he's using consecutive candles what's
the theory this is the first time I
taught this my private mentorship
students never seen this okay like I'm
I'm here to
teach if you don't want to learn you
don't you don't need to be here but you
can't deny that right there and the time
it's forming
Dave because it's all time time time
time so here is the first
trade and delivery inside of the fair
value G this is the PD
at 1050 the algorithm will do what it
will seek inefficiency or
liquidity okay well we have a gap it
could act as a breakway gap we expected
to trade down into it but not fill the
Gap in wonderful what time is that
actually occurring at 1052 does it meet
the criteria for a macro yes so the time
this is forming it meets it so that
means the market should start to
gravitate where to liquidity
here and where I took you to the daily
chart because if the Market's going to
move it's going to move to something on
the daily chart it's not just one minute
charts it's got to be some kind of
higher time frame premise then if you
build that in relationship to what you
see on the smaller time frames you have
the best of both worlds but the
inefficiencies on the daily chart or the
stops or liquidity that's being either
engineered or engaged traded to booked
to on the daily chart all of the things
that make the world go around in the
financial Market the the key premise and
levels are going to derive from the
daily chart it's the previous day's high
and low the previous day's high and low
in the last 3 days last week's high and
low the upper quadrant the midpoint and
the lower quadrant of that range those
are always the levels that you need to
have and that is not classic support and
resistance okay these are reference
points that the algorithm will always go
back to I don't give a [__] if you're
talking about Forex I don't care if
you're talking about bonds I don't care
if you're talking about gold I don't
care if you're talking about um any of
the indices anything
that's that's what it's going to do if
it's running on an algorithm those are
your key reference points and you're
probably like man I can't wait for him
to uh put the recording up so I can
rewind that and get that again it'll be
there but here's the 1050 to 11:10 macro
and if you're first time viewer you
don't know doubt that means every single
60 minute
interval okay every s every 60 Minutes
every hour
okay at the top of the hour the Market
will spool it means it jumps and runs to
one of two things it will go to a
shortterm low to tap into liquidity that
it would be sell stops or sells side
liquidity or it goes up to a short-term
High which is buy side liquidity or
engage buy stops for the purpose of
introducing liquidity to the
marketplace or it trades to an
inefficiency to invite smart money
to capitalize on an entry right before
price spools to the liquidity so in case
you missed it the inefficiency I
identified as it was forming I said you
know I want to see this stay open and I
drew your attention to that volume
balance on the daily chart that's all
you need for a trade folks you don't
need to be in it doing all this you
don't need all that but remember I was
telling you like how it's just going to
keep marching around these are days that
you're going to get beat up and you
might know a lot of stuff you might be a
profitable Trader even using other
stuff but when you have these types of
days and you're trying to you know work
within it it can be very
frustrating so if you get one Victory
one little win Caleb and you identify a
day like this and you feel like it's
like man a hard
read take it and leave and don't regret
it don't look back don't even look back
at it to shake your feet off like you
know shake the dust off the of the
trading day and then leave
it but it's occurring at 1052 it's
treating them the inefficiency for what
reason it's going down there to offer
fair value for anyone that understands
the elements that I'm teaching you then
where does the market trade
to liquidity which is that high here
because when it drops down here the
highest high prior to that is here but
what's above that what I took your
attention to on the daily chart that
volume in Balance so from this candle's
low which is 18
even to this candle's high for the buy
side 5150 so we have 21 handles or no 20
handles okay 20 handles that's enough to
do a trade for like a bread and butter
type set I can I can eat 10 to 15
handles out of something like that can
you I don't know but if you're not
confident don't do it so to give a
better
range that volume IM balance that shaded
in yellow that I got on the daily chart
the low of that we'll just ball poket
and say it right here that's 56 So it's
handles consequent encroachment eyeball
it 60 so we're looking at 30 handles
thereabouts to get the halfway point
which is right up here and that's
exactly what I said I would all I would
only expect that from Caleb so being a
buyer down here should he felt inclined
to do so and getting out at midpoint
here and maybe getting filled here
eventually
that would be the trade and then he'd
have to move to the sideline to be
content with
it the fact that it's a PPI or CPI
number today and it's doing this type of
behavior I'm not I'm not personally
interested in taking those types of
Trades even though clearly as I've
outlined it today there are some
elements that I can pull out and say
well here's a setup and let's watch this
but I'm not going to push the button
there's lots of things all day long that
I may be looking at my phone I may be
out about with my wife or whatever I'm
like okay it's going to do this and do
that but when it does it and it moves 75
handles 50 handles 25 handles like
they're they're happening all day long
but I don't feel like I'm missing
anything because I know how to find
trades tomorrow I know how to find
trades this afternoon I know how to find
trades in the London session I know how
to find trades clearly in the Asian
session like I I'm not I'm not running
out of yeast this Baker doesn't run out
of yeast okay and that gives you
confidence which sounds like arrogance
to somebody else that's struggling and
it's not my intention to make you feel
that way but eventually over a period of
time my students feel that same mutant
power that confidence and it makes us
sound like we're arrogant Pricks or
[__] and again it's just other
people that are weak-minded they can't
accept the fact that some individuals
have their [__] together and it's it
just feels uncomfortable they get their
feelings all hurt okay and that's the
problem with the day they they wear
their their emotions on their sleeve and
if someone's successful and they want to
share to inspire other people or you ask
them and they tell you what the reality
is and then you're like well I asked you
how you're doing and how much money
you're making and you told me and now
you're a dick you look at look at you
you're telling me how much money you're
braging you asked don't ask if you don't
want to know right don't ask don't tell
so at 10:52 we're trading inside the
time that means
every
hour a macro is
in
operation every single
hour
okay some macros are better than others
I'll leave that for the book but I've
talked about most of them already on
Twitter spaces and or other videos on
this YouTube
channel there are times where you want
to be using them and others you just
want to sit and wait that's not the word
go okay and this would be labeled on
your
chart
10:50 to
11:10 a.m. eastern time always Eastern
Time inside Center
all right and what we've done is we've
highlighted a time when the algorithm
that absolutely does exist it controls
price and nothing happens outside of its
control unless it's a manual
intervention and you'll know when
intervention is there because it's just
completely abrupt sudden forceful you're
raped basically the market doesn't give
you any chance of getting in it just
runs away one-sided and if you're in it
and you're other side of the marketplace
and you're offside you're destroyed
basically that's manual intervention
okay manual intervention is fomc look at
it look at it like that that's always
going on every single time fomc comes
out at 2 o'clock and at 2:30 both of
those things are manual intervention
they're absolutely controlled
demolition that is not organic that's
not buying and selling pressure it's not
an absence of buyers or sellers it's not
a void of liquidity it's a unadulterated
rape that's exactly what it is it's
destruction it's Carnage it's designed
to do
that and the sooner you accept that the
better you'll be looking at it and
trading after it forms but at 1050 for
the hour at 11 o' 10 minutes before 11:
and 10 minutes after 11 that's a 20
minute interval okay what occurs is the
market will seek either inefficiency
like this Gap here here or it will seek
liquidity if it's like say for instance
we didn't have this Gap
here okay say this this Wick touched
this Wick or the bodies touched there
was no separation between and not having
this One Singular candle traversing
between the previous candles low I'm
sorry High and the next candle's low so
there's no there's no Gap basically what
I'm
saying if that's the case then what you
would do is you would wait for the down
closed candle that forms in any
retracement here it has to run away from
it and then come back down like we're
teaching this order
block that would be what you would look
for but if there's no inefficiency you
have to use the the the order block so
either it's a gap or an order BL or a
short-term low so there is no short-term
low in here until that
forms but what's there the
inefficiency so there isn't a there's no
condition that has all three you know
what I'm saying like you're not going to
get a short-term low an order block and
a fair value Gap that can't that that
that can't occupy the same space in in
the time frame or chart you're looking
at it's physically impossible it doesn't
work that way so when students first
start hearing these lessons when I had
paid mentorship they would like well how
do I know this and what if
it once you spend time looking at it
they can't all three agree and exist in
the same place not at the same price in
the same time it doesn't work that way
it's two at best but never all three but
usually it's one or the other okay at
least one of the three so there's no
short-term low to be worried about
trading down below we do have a gap but
it happens to form after a break away
from all the consolidation that we were
monitoring and I was not interested in
all morning here and I mentioned that we
had these lows down here we swept below
that and I said okay
I believe that they're going to use the
fair value Gap that I mentioned here as
support they didn't really technically
touch it at all it was like one tick
away but it then displac above the
high this Gap forms after that break
away from that consolidation which is
classic algorithmically it's not classic
support and resistance because it never
came back down and touched that
Wick so at 1052 we have our first piece
of information yes price did trade down
in there yes it did not fill that lower
portion and any subsequent touch of the
fair value Gap high can be used as
support it should be immediate response
take off and leave it and trade to that
high but how far above that high can it
go you got to go to a higher time frame
reference point which is why I took you
through the daily chart to highlight
this volume imbalance it was the easiest
obvious level Above This High that's
inefficient because there's no way you
can classify
shortterm buy side liquidity on the
daily chart because you have to go
further up
so what's the first PD array that you
come to on the daily chart it's this
shaded area that I highlighted which is
the volume and
balance so from entering here at
1052 into this fair value Gap you have
all the way up to
1110 to see any new entry so all through
this period from here to here relative
to time okay this is a Time window in
other words this is what you're saying
in price PR action there's going to be
opportunities to be a
buyer at a discount array what discount
arrays do you
see institutional or ENT drill inside
this fair value Gap that should not fill
in because it's Breakaway Gap why
because it left the
consolidation okay then we have this
down closed candle does it repel price
after it does does it trade
above the opening price yes that
validates this down closed candle as a
block is there any down closed candles
prior to that candle immediately to the
left of it yes is there one prior to
that one yes is there one prior to that
one no so algorithmically the price is
called to that opening price because
it's the highest portion of these three
consecutive down Clos candles the
opening that's the price this is that's
the change in the state of delivery you
extend that through time how far do you
do it all the way till 1110
pray tell pray [__] tell how the hell
all this stuff just happens to line up
all by time
first and price to the [__]
tick there's no algorithm folks there's
no way they could control price like
this how could they possibly keep things
this
controlled 81 million votes my [__]
ass but looking at this extend it
Forward tra right back down into that
opening price bang then it delivers
higher
if you're trying to get get on board and
you're trying to work with a macro
because a macro that 20-minute interval
is like a
supercharger for efficiency
and immediate responsiveness in your
entries that's not the mean that you
can't take trades outside of this so
don't think for a moment that I'm trying
to say ICT only teaches the trade in the
first 10 minutes up to the last I'm
sorry for the first 10 minutes prior to
a new hour and 10 minutes after the new
hour I'm not saying that that's the only
entry times I'm saying that as my son if
you focus on these elements of your
setups you're going to get the better
fills you're going to get the immediate
response by Price telling you yes you're
on side how do you how do you know your
own side when the market immediately
starts moving away from your entry and
never getting close to your stop that's
a wonderful feeling how do you how do
you get into trades that promote that as
a steady diet
time
time time is the most critical function
in price
delivery and if you can't see
that literally you're in denial you're
you're in [__]
denial at this stage in the game after
me showing so much you can't see this
[Music]
there's no hope for you just just
believe it's all random and you know
don't ever watch my videos but the point
is you have the down close candle here
that we walk through the sequence of
okay guidance tells me that if this is
an order block the way you determine is
there a down close candle prior to that
one to the left yes and then does here
yes and then you don't have it here so
you use the opening price there that's
all their algorithms doing that's the
code that's what it does by time it does
this okay it touched here why why is
that important because this is the
framework that causes that
inefficiency this is where we traded to
the low of so to get this fill perfectly
it's got to offer one tick below it and
that's why it goes down there that's not
[__] buying pressure that stops IT
there folks it's not the collective
Universe of buyers and sellers didn't
say Hey
listen today is my turn to be the buyer
I'm going to be low tick today
I'm low tick everybody else had a chance
to do it but it's my time I'm going to
be the buyer to get the low tick on that
candle think about the the the absurdity
of stating that the buying and selling
of everybody out there with all of the
[__] that they look at on their charts
the things that they believe the last
time their elbow hurt you NQ went up 50
handles the last time they had gal the
the ndaq dropped 500
handles the nonsense the people that
[__] look at the stars and the moon
and the the lunar sequence and says oh
yeah Jupiter's in retrograde and this is
[__] that that has nothing to do
with these markets it literally has
nothing to do with it but they'll write
books sell courses and people buy that
[__] and eat it up they'll eat it up and
ask for
more they'll cheerlead these people on
the internet and say they're so smart
look at the wisdom look at this sorcery
he can read the lunar cycles and the C
the [__] Market is not giving two
shits about what the [__] phase of
the moon is or where the planets
are you're talking about horror
Scopes horror Scopes okay I mean that
factiously I am not following the
[__] sun moon and stars to pick a a
trade idea okay because it has no
bearing on it do full moons cause people
to be more uh
aggressive sure I believe in that but
when I read that stuff in Larry Williams
book how I made a million dollar tra in
commod last year and he was talking
about the effects of full moons and what
all that it was an interesting read but
I don't subscribe to it I don't believe
any of that [__]
fascinating read at that time but I hold
absolutely no interest in it and I don't
believe absolutely at all that has no
bearing whatsoever on what price is
going to
do so when we look at Price like this
okay okay every
hour you should have an alarm or you
have vertical line now when I say the
vertical line
delineations this might be problematic
okay because if I do
that you may not see the colors of your
Wick where the high and low is so just
be mindful about what I'm about to say
here because if you're not going to set
alarms TimeWise like you on a clock say
hey look you know we're 5 minutes away
from the next macro what what time would
that be on your clock it would be 10:45
a.m. eastern time that means New York
local time every I'm saying folks if you
don't have this on trading view toggled
I don't care where you live your time
should be set to this all the
time all the
time doesn't matter where you are
graphically geographically around the
world this is the time that the
algorithm runs on
period but if you don't want to use time
uh uh alarms okay you can set up little
vertical lines
framing the macro at each top of the
hour okay so it tells you okay start
looking for a run to gaps or
inefficiencies or trade to liquidity
which one do you
do
well right here I'm sorry right here at
uh 1050 that's the beginning of the
macro so what what occurred right there
at 1050 we've already taken out relative
equal highs so we are engaging liquidity
what kind of liquidity buy side so what
is the more what is the more likelihood
of price going higher at that moment we
going
lower well we have the short-term low
that it forms and then trades higher
once more so we have buy side once more
the inefficiency below the marketplace
is where it it doesn't exist in here
all this run up to that high there's no
there's no Gap there all it's laying
over top of each other this Wick here
goes B Bak back to this this low so
there's no inefficiency there for the
one minute chart so what does it mean
sell side if it's going to go discount
to here and or what's that daily
inefficiency that's yellow that volume
imbalance we went down to it here we
rallied back up traded down one more
higher high and then D digs all the way
back down what time 12:00 so that's mid
macro it's like the first 10 minutes
entering the last half an hour or last
half of that 20- minute
period so if it's going to be reacting
reacting off of that and if price is
bullish where would it go to at that
that moment the price will spool where
to a inefficiency above that so where's
that at not here it's basically
overlapping there you have this one
which is a volume and balance which is a
smaller form of what this shaded area is
that's derived from the daily chart so
you can trade up to that it does that
handsomely it does this one here again
handsomely you have all of this here it
trades up to that there and then you
have the liquidity above that high so
it's just like riding or climbing a
mountain or rock climbing this is the
surface of the mountain you just drop
down to go into an area they'll start
going back up so you have to look at
that surface of that rock like a rock
climber and say okay where's my
footholds here
here all of this
inefficiency how can this inefficiency
be used it's a foothold it has to go
above it and then come back down in here
and then sends price higher again taking
out this high so price is doing what
it's using this time to refer to key
price
points and if you are looking for a
directional run it helps you frame that
every single hour it does this which is
why I used to brag about all the time on
Twitter I'd say look you know I can
trade every hour Candlestick every
single hour I can trade it and it's
based on this idea here okay um all the
stuff about 90minut Cycles I'm telling
you for the last time there is no 90
minute cycles that you can go out and
copy and do something with there's
people doing all kinds of [__]
talking nonsense about it it's just a
measure of that that's the smallest
window of your trading time anything
less than 90 minutes you're not giving
yourself a fair chance because what that
does is it guarantees you're going to
get one macro very minimum you're G to
get one macro and if you know what if
you're knowing what the price is likely
to do because you understand how to read
price and you also understand a
directional draw on where the market may
send price that means what do you think
the daily candlestick's going to do what
do you think the session's going to do
what what is the weekly chart reaching
for these are all things that we taught
in previous mentorships that are being
you know rung back in here because we
spend enough time on a lower time frames
proving that you don't need to see all
the other stuff but to get a better view
holistically incorporating the higher
time frames weekly and daily you get
much more information which makes your
trade decisions a lot easier and
better so you can see how these elements
of time they're crucial they are
supercharged
for anticipating price runs and how they
are to behave how they how they function
what are the what's the mechanics behind
why a price run takes place that was
what I did a lot of study in my 20s I
wanted to know what repeating phenomenon
were there and all of these price runs
and back then I would be in trades where
the market would just take off and start
trading
one-sidedness and I would go back
through and look at for looking for p
patterns from the book technical
analysis on the financial markets by
John Murphy and I couldn't see anything
in there because he was teaching support
and resistance so why was these prices
going down to specific levels that were
completely by
themselves they had no they had no Rhyme
or Reason to why it did
it and I collected and I collected and I
collected and I started seeing these
repeating phenomenon and I was obsessive
about reading price studying I wanted to
figure this [__] out I had to know it it
was a physical problem for me like I it
was consuming every aspect of my life
and you can hear it I mean I'm I'm I'm
here it's two it's 20 minutes after 12 I
was supposed to be out of here two hours
ago but I I'm this is my life this is my
passion and it's my baby so I I want to
brag on it because she does exactly what
she's told to do and there are times
where it can be messed with it can be
tinkered with it can be dis disrupted
okay and when you see those types of
things and you understand what it should
do and it's not doing that that's the
clearest thing I can say that tells me
I'm not doing something in the market
that
day and I can't make it any easier or
planer than that so if it's telling
me very clearly that it's trying to do
something based on time first it's
reaching for a pool of liquidity or
inefficiency above or below the
marketplace then it's going to keep
doing that and either I'm on a trade or
I'm not going to be on a trade and if
I'm not going to be on a trade I don't
care all of this price action these
types of runs here these are not these
are not important to me they're not
interesting to me they may be
fascinating because I'm outlining it to
you and why the things happen and how
all stems from that first run out of
that consolidation from earlier in the
day and telling you that you know if it
goes higher I I'm not going to be a part
of it and I'm okay with it but there'll
be certain aspects to it that I can see
that
are synonymous to what we look for for
algorithmic trades look at the
difference between like see how we have
1150 to 1210 here I'm going to do the
same thing for the
1110 to
[Music]
1050 okay so in between these two
vertical lines here the purest cleanest
delivery
how price will spool now think about
like I gave you the analogy last week if
you're a fisherman and you cast your
your your lure on your reel you cast it
out and all that fishing line starts
spooling off the Reel as the as The Lure
and the weight and the hook gets further
away from your Rod as you cast it out
that spooling that that leaving of the
Reel as this this fishing line comes off
that that's what's occurring here it's
spooling off of it running away as it's
being Cast Away from the rod okay look
at the difference between in between
1050 and 1110 which is what I'm teaching
the algorithm
does the real runs start in there and
then after 1050 price can still advance
but look how shitty it gets all of this
all of this all of this all of this and
then suddenly what happens the algorithm
starts going back into what it does
following its code at 1050 10 minutes to
we get run on liquidity back down into a
discount sell Side
Run can you see
that and this is this isn't the most
obvious examples but even on a shitty
day like this you can clearly see
something's going on between this time
window of 20 minutes and it I want you
to study your charts like that on a one
minute chart on a 15-second chart even
if you don't have the ability to do the
15-second chart now it once you excuse
me once you get to the point where you
can afford to do so then then obviously
collect it um if you have friends that
are you know training with you and they
have the ability to do 15-second
charting share them you know share the
chart with them you you're not you're
not giving them real- time access you're
giving them something that's already
happened but this is something that you
should be observing and studying because
I've taught about this and people have
tried to make courses around it and they
have no idea what the [__] they're
talking about they've rooked people
they've scammed people because of
something I've said and they used the
buzzwords and they claim that oh this is
what it's doing and they talk about all
these other macros that aren't
macros they're not [__] macros this
is your macro this is this is what they
are right here
now you do have a midnight to 1:00 in
the morning
macro you do have a final hour of the
day three macros I've talked about them
for Indy
trading what you do with them and how to
use them and when to use one over the
other that's what's going to be on the
book I've already taught you a clinic
today on Macros if I ever stopped and
never mentioned mackers again I have
given you such an advantage I've given
you a baseball bat okay that you could
walk out there every single day and
smash something if you have a general
idea where the is likely to go that's
the that's the first and foremost lesson
though which is why I've been beating
into everybody's head and when I teach
knowing where the Market's trying to
gravitate and draw to if you don't have
that everything else is going to put you
offside and you're not going to do well
and you'll be frustrated but once you
understand where the Market's likely to
draw to and it has range what's range
it's got to at least be able to move 10
hand I'm sorry 20 handles because at 20
handles I can get 15 handles or 10
handles from that so if I'm if I'm not
confident that I can see a very simple
price run of 20 handles it's going to be
one-sided it's going to be timable where
I can go in and anticipate it
occurring then I'm not interested in
taking the trade and I don't care how it
trades and keeps moving and moving and
moving I don't care about that because I
know that there's going to be technical
days that's going to be like this that I
don't care too much about and for people
that are brand new and they think well
you know look this thing's been going up
the whole day he should have made this
and should have made that I'm not here
to prove trading I'm here to teach my
son how to start being able to determine
where the Market's going to go and where
to avoid where it's not likely to be so
easy to trade and navigate in you're
going to tell me all this stuff in here
all this stuff was in here perfectly
clear to you every little tiny little
fluctuation I guarantee you if you were
in a trade every single instance where
it was dropping down your [__] was
puckering but you're going to talk about
it after the fact I'm not out here after
the fact I'm outlining it and giving the
logic as it's happening
so it's up to you to test this
theory in your charts log it and then if
you don't see where the Market's
referring
to befor hand there's no there's no
shame in getting getting the information
after the fact because hindsight's 2020
and every doctor every surgeon every
[__] lawyer every professional every
pilot everybody sred learning their
trade in hindsight they looked at
hindsight examples everything has to be
started from the basis of hindsight and
why people pretend that looking at
hindsight moves and studying price
action like that is not beneficial like
you're going to somehow learn how to do
this without doing that they're full of
[__] and because most people come to
this industry chomping at the bit to
hurry up and run and make money and
they're impatient that's a huge Market
to tap into I could Rook all of you
easily easy easily if I wanted to and
flee 95% of you
immediately just by saying I'm going to
give you the secrets to the macros and
here's the course sign up to it it's 560
bucks and you only have this much time
to join up and once it's done I'm
done and not have [__] millions of
dollars thrown at me again because
you've seen enough okay you've seen
enough to validate the things I'm
talking
about you watch me call it live you
watch me explain it even though it may
be at a level of detail and Pace that
you don't like but you can't argue the
fact that I can see this [__] before it
happens and I can tell when I don't want
to be a part of something and if I say
this much and I give the buzzwords and
other people know that wow there's going
to be people that want to buy this [__]
and I'm in a country where nobody can
come after me if I scam them so all I
gota do is get them to send the money
one time if they never pay again I don't
give a [__] I can pay my bills I can
live I can
eat and unfortunately I've had a lot of
people all around the world in third
world Nations scam individuals in those
third world Nations and lie them saying
I'm in ict's mentorship and this is what
he's doing my private mentorship people
barely get [__] from me because I have
leakers in there once in a while I'll
hang out with them but
no so if I'm going to share it and teach
it I'm going to amplify on what they've
already learned which works because I
have students that have made millions of
dollars find your Mentor online selling
$200 courses that they any millionaire
they made none okay they've made
and they're watching this live stream
right now hi Patrick so if you're
looking at this as a basis of finding
when the moves begin or where they
originate this is one of the easiest
ways that you can frame out your
hindsight moves and start studying them
and then by going through the process of
reading all this stuff okay notice how
candlesticks in and of themselves that
are down closed candles okay if if order
flow is bullish okay for the take a
benefit of you know the hindsight that's
it's available here obviously the market
wants to go higher and we can see that
it's done so but where are you keying up
your interest in this because if you're
trading outside of the 1050 to
1110 I'm
sorry 1150 to 1210 and 1050 to 1110
intervals you're you're demanding that
you know a whole whole lot more than you
probably do in your skill set in your
progress of of learning how to read
price action what I do is I'm putting
your focus inside of these specific
Windows of time where the setups will
absolutely [__] be there you might
get the direction wrong because you have
not done enough work in determining
where price will be gravitating
to you understand like there's a certain
measure of responsibility on your part
like you still have to go back to square
one which is where is Price being drawn
to if your models don't start with that
first foundational premise everything
you do after that or apart from that is
likely to fail and you won't have the
courage to stick with any trade idea
because any little fluctuation and
return back into this right this rally
up these are all ugly retracements
they're all shitty retrace
I don't like price activity like that I
like price action that has none of this
[__] in
it where it runs and creates very
obvious one point of inefficiency a fair
value Gap a buy side imbalance sell side
in efficiency or a sell-side imbalance
buy side
inefficiency it's easy for me to read
that it's it's very very easy to do that
and my students that know how to read
the price action and things I've taught
they can nod their head and say yep
that's that's all I do if it's a a day
like think about it like this
imagine all these candlesticks are cars
and trucks and tractor trailers on the
highway and the highway is from this
Candlestick here to whatever this price
is up here say you had the foresight to
know that from here to here it's
probably going to keep going up okay and
this this time of
day
is 3:00 in the morning to 5 o'clock in
the morning
in your local time in your local time
okay and then this right here is like
8:00 to 9 o'clock or 7 o'clock to 9
o'clock when it's rush hour when you
can't go [__] nowhere everything's
jammed to the gills you can't do [__]
you're sitting out there cussing and
wishing you weren't there I should have
called out of work today I should have
wish I would have left earlier I should
have got gas I'm G to run out of gas
there's a [__] accident up here I
can't get past these people they won't
let me get past nobody's letting me
merge on you're dealing with everybody's
dealt with that before right well look
at all the congestion even though this
move has been going up look at the
congestion of back and forth back and
forth you seen the same guy or woman
that's tried to cut in front of you and
change lanes 15 times and she's still
within two car lengths of you and she's
cussing and ranting raving you're and
you're worried about not letting her get
in front of you or letting him get in
front of you and they never find their
way any further up the road that's
what's going on back here all through
through here and then all of a sudden
you get to 6:00 in the evening rush hour
in the evening time is over so the the
traffic gets cleaner and then all of a
sudden boom it starts running because
there's no congestion there's nothing
slowing down the progress of price
delivery if you're going to trade in
environments like this well you're going
to do something I'm not interested in
and I can tell you right now nobody
gives two shits about wanting to trade
in this kind of mess here nobody's going
to put lipstick on this pig and
say how pretty is that you're not gonna
get it nobody's nobody sees this and
says wow that's sexy I don't give a [__]
how much money you can prove after the
fact that you made you're never going to
convince people that this is the right
place to be trading if they know
anything about reading
price contrast that with when the
Market's running real clean you have
nice run UPS obvious inefficiencies
there's gaps there and then it pulls
back into those gaps and you can reason
expect that it's going to be bouncing
and trade to another premium array and
then you can judge whether or not if
it's going to stop there and go lower
you can swing trade it this is not a
swing Trader
Market I guess it's probably would have
been better for me to say it that way
earlier I was trying to figure out how
to articulate what I was saying I like a
swing Traders environment in intraday
because I can buy and sell buy and sell
go short go long and in the same trading
day in the same trading session in the
same
hour so if I can't do those types of
things if I can't be like Spider-Man web
swinging back and forth up down up down
that's usually an indication that I'm
probably not in a market environment or
session that is conducive for me to be
comfortable can I squeeze something out
clearly as I outlined over here I could
have very easily pushed a button on that
and said see here you
go but I'm practicing what I preach and
what I live by if it's a condition that
I don't like I'm staying out of
it why why am I in the past I've done
things like that where I said I don't
like this and then all a sudden I'm not
going to trade then I go out there and
trade and make you know 150
handles that's because of some [__]
leaving a comment saying oh you can't
trade today because blah blah blah and
then I got and smoke them and I do their
whole three months of whatever whatever
they pretend they did I did it in one
day but because it's my son that's the
real target audience here I'm practicing
what I preach because I want him to do
those same things I want him to be
humble I want him to know that I've made
mistakes doing these types of things and
also where Dad has a little bit more
difficulty using these like this as a
canvas to operate in I can paint
whatever I want in terms of the the the
hall or profit objective I want for the
week I don't have to be in every day
seeking to do it so I want to be
aware of what I'm saying in in the
presence of my son's attention because I
don't want him to gravitate to the
things that seem sexy attractive
actionpack that way it draws attention
for the sake of drawing attention I want
him to be
bored when he does this not that he's so
bored he doesn't want to do it but
because he's not influenced by fear and
greed and that's a very delicate thing
to balance and I didn't know how to
address those things when I was
20-year-old but was teaching then and I
wasn't prepared to be a teacher I didn't
know enough to be teaching but I was
charging people money in my 20s because
I had initial success that was
completely blind
luck I could not do what you're able to
watch me do today
then I couldn't do it then I can do it
now and my maturity and my Affinity for
other people and concern for other
people because I harmed myself with
these markets too it hasn't always been
good in my 20s it was a wreck it was bad
it was really bad but I want my son to
be spared of all that and he can take
all the advantages and the painful
lessons I learned and do the right
things speed up his learning not that I
want to make it faster but this is the
way you speed it up it's the only way it
can be sped up the learning curve is
shortened by you learning initially in
the early stages how you're going to
probably mess it up and 90% of those
things are you
yourself you're the Catalyst that causes
those things it's not poor information
it's not incomplete lectures it's not
Concepts that don't work it's you doing
things that were not taught to you
you're you're trying to reinvent it
trying to do something something
different or you're not following the
rules at all
and if you can't do those two things you
can't reasonably expect to be able to be
productive and profitable in your
learning or eventually being profitable
in terms of making money because you're
not doing all the things you're supposed
to
do
so tomorrow um we're going to talk a
little bit about turtle soup I was going
to talk about it Friday but I lost my
train of thought and because my son was
sitting next to me and and it's just it
it wasn't a good it wasn't a good fix
you know I had limited time I wanted to
leave early anyway and it just it it
didn't work out so tomorrow we're going
to talk about uh turtle
soup and and reversal patterns you know
around that same subject matter but uh
I'll I'll give you my view as price is
you know real time producing its runs
too but the main focus tomorrow is going
to be teaching uh Turtle suit so it's a
reversal program it's a reversal
uh pattern idea it's a methodology for
capturing reversals
and I think you'll enjoy it there's not
a a great deal of moving Parts but the
logic is very simple and when to look
for it when not to look for it kind of
like I spent a great deal of time today
highlighting
personal
um attributes about days like this where
I'm comfortable being in front of you
telling you that it might go higher but
I'm not interested in being in this
market because I know that this One
Singular candle isn't the entire
capsulation of my trading career it's it
doesn't limit my opportunities because
this is the day that I'm watching live
with you just look at what we were doing
last week look at what we were able to
do yesterday so unfortunately when I do
live streams and or I talk about price
action live when I was on Twitter
calling every individual Candlestick
before it happened and what it would be
reaching
for the idea is that well
ICT is always in there every single day
killing it every single day and I'm not
many times if it's around a report day
like this if it behaves like this I
won't touch
it like I'll talk to Traders online you
know everybody obviously has my phone
number because it's it's public
knowledge and I have students that
shared it and I have people that trolled
me and sent me not not nonsensical
[__] the uh but I do communicate
with you know people on the internet
that are Traders and are YouTube tra uh
YouTube uh Traders live stream and
whatnot and you sometimes we'll check in
with each other think how how' you do
today what' you do today and or I'll if
if someone had a good day I'll
congratulate them or if they had a bad
day I'll say you know what would you
like to do differently if you could go
back and and do that now obviously I
wouldn't come out of the blue and send
that to anybody as a first text but yeah
I I've I believe I've built a rapport
with certain individuals
and they're very cordial with me they'll
say well you know I I I did this or I
didn't do this and I like seeing that I
like seeing that they're flexible enough
to say you know this is what I would
have liked to do differently but they
don't beat themselves up about it I like
that and if they try to I kind of R
reformulate their statements in a matter
so it's like yeah I get what you're
saying but say it like this that way it
doesn't feel like you're you're whipping
yourself in the in the
Woodshed but anyway this is one of those
lectures and and lessons that I honestly
would have paid [__] money for this
like I would have paid money for this
and if I would have paid money and I had
sat through this today I would have got
my money's worth and more because having
gone through initial stages of thinking
I figured it out when I was 20 and then
losing my ass and then not knowing what
it is I'm supposed to be feeling or how
to identify
certain times of the market where I'm
not interested in trading and I have no
shame in it there's no ego I don't have
any there's nothing that I feel as a
embarrassment saying this and I
hopefully have disarmed many of you that
probably feel
like that's bothering
me it feels like you know I don't want
to admit some Frailty you I want
everything to be like you know I'm I'm
Superman like I have new weaknesses but
everybody even Superman has a
Kryptonite and the sooner you warm up to
the idea that you're not expected to be
perfect and you don't have to trade
every single day that is such a very
liberating frame of mind it's very
liberating to feel like you know what as
a constant reminder before you start
trading you should write it down in your
pad that's next to your computer not on
your screen and remind yourself if it
doesn't feel right and if it doesn't
look right and if I don't recognize it I
don't have to
trade and if live streamers did that you
wouldn't see them lose as many times as
they do and there's nothing wrong with
losing I'm not making a a sharp pointed
statement but I believe wholeheartedly
in the ones that I talk to know what I'm
saying is exactly what I've talked to
them about they do things many times
times because they sat for a long period
of time and they have an audience and
that audience is in the chat window and
they can say they don't want to look at
every chat but the times they feel
uncomfortable because they know they
haven't pushed a button they haven't
done anything they haven't explained
anything they haven't called something
before it happened they know that the
the natives are getting
restless they want to see something they
want to see something they've been there
they've invested their time watching you
listening to you looking at your live
stream and what have you done in their
mind you've wasted their time no they
wasted their
time any of you sitting here today if
you didn't get something from this you
wasted your time I didn't waste my time
I've invested into my son with things
that are absolutely grounded in making
or losing real money based on real
executions and the lessons I had to
learn
painfully
painfully and it took a lot for me to
wrestle myself into submission saying
okay if I see these things I'm not
trying to prove myself in these
conditions I'm not trying to do that I
don't need to do that in the past I've
hurt myself doing that so I want to
focus where I
shine I want to be visible when I know I
have all of the things in my
favor and if I choose to operate all my
trading like that guess what that
does it refines you as a very mature
your principal oriented investor and
Trader that means you're not out there
just pushing the buttons for the sheer
Gamble and thrill of it you're weighing
out all the ramifications of your
decisions you're not limit you're not
limiting it to just the dopamine hit if
you did it right are you really
following a
model because if you have a model that
you're following it's going to have
certain measures of criteria like we're
talking about here there has to be
something that frames a day that you are
not allowed to touch it cannot be open
season every day so to people that say
every day is a trading day every day is
a profitable day you're listening to a
gambler period okay they're training you
to try to go in there on every
instance every instance every single day
because the Market's trading therefore
you should go in there no should you be
in there engaging and studying price
every day
absolutely but you should not have the
mindset going going in you don't know
what you're doing you've never been
profitable you're learning you should
not have the expectation of going in
every single day no way absolutely
not no
way you're setting yourself up for
unrealistic expectations never being
met and I know that isn't sexy to say
those types of things but it's the
that's the Sound Logic that a new
student should adhere to in the
beginning
and then when you when you finally get
your model you may have another model in
addition to the one you subscribe to and
use predominantly but you'll
have a very specific routine that you
use if it meets the criteria for trades
then you'll take it when you take a step
back over years of doing it you're going
to look back and say you know
what that old [__] was right he
was talking truth and I didn't want to
receive it then because I want to trade
every day because everyday Trading is a
legend is a
goat I'm not trying to be a goat I'm not
trying to be a legend I just want to be
consistent and I want to live my life
and know that what I'm doing isn't going
to drain me emotionally and
psychologically I'm not gonna have
regret I don't feel I don't like
gambling I hate gambling if I liked
gambling I would play cards and I'd
probably win because I know to I can
count cards I can I can run the cards up
I can stack a deck I can do all that
kind of stuff I have built in advantages
but I don't want to
gamble I don't go to casinos I don't
play the [__] Lottery okay I don't do
none of those things I don't do that
stuff but I do very boring things like
watching these candlesticks behave at a
specific time of day in an environment
where it's conducive for it to be
recognizable that's
it and if you can't let the market pass
you by
and you feel like man I'm missing so
much that's highlighting impatience and
greed and those two things together
they're
deadly and you have to master them
early and that means by watching price
and giving yourself permission I'm not
going to try to trade even if this thing
keeps going I don't care because the
visibility is beyond just today
Caleb will not be able to trade every
single day his job won't allow for
that so A lesson like this helps him to
ground himself knowing that okay just
because the market is trading and just
because there are fluctuations in price
and it's moving doesn't mean that I have
to be in that day because his schedule
his
workload something else happening May
prevent him from doing that and I don't
hear enough of that talk by these pseudo
mentors these Educators everything's go
go go go go everything's maximum maximum
maximum everything is trying to make
money make executions make trades get
payouts not realizing
that these same individuals are making
money off of you doing that and not
being successful because every single
time you use an affiliate link they're
making money
and I mean that not to be vilified not
to you know throw hate at them I'm not
throwing shade or anything I'm just
making you remember for a second if the
if the constant reminder is go go go
baby well don't be surprised when it's
gone in 30 seconds and you have to pay
another reset
fee it's a built-in Advantage for that
it's a built-in Advantage for anybody
with an affiliate link to get other
people to do
these very poor choices go out there and
trade I can teach you how to trade in x
amount of days three months four months
one month one week one week Workshop one
one weekend spend a weekend with me and
I'll teach you how to
trade come
on at some point you going have to take
a step back and say okay where's the
where's the motivation
here if I had an affiliate link with
people any one of these brokerage firms
and they've most of them have asked me
and I'm like no I won't do it can you
imagine the influence that I have and if
I said listen here's the affiliate link
I could probably make millions of
dollars doing
that and I'm not here doing that am I
I'm spending time I read a comment from
a young man I do need to cut off here
because I gotta get something you
haven't eating today
um he says you know what I like
listening to you and I love your long
ones because
it feels like amma's Dad and I'm talking
to him like like a dad and it's because
I'm as I'm talking this stuff I'm
picturing my kids and I'm picturing
Caleb as I'm obviously doing these live
streams because that's my target
audience
but I liked his comment where he's like
I like the fact that you are spending
time I'm I live comfortably okay and
when I said last week that I'm a
millionaire that was not me bragging I'm
just reminding folks that I don't have
to go to a job I don't have to do any I
don't need to trade ever again like I
never need to do this ever again I don't
ever need to press a button and hope to
make money I don't need to do any of
that
stuff but he says something that I've
said this many times in passing when
people would be upset with me because I
wasn't doing enough um he stated that
he's thankful that I'm in a position I'm
in and I don't have to make this
available to you like I don't need to
spend my time in front of you
but I I think you can appreciate that I
enjoy it
right like I love doing this like I love
it and really I'm not getting a lot
there's the ad Revenue that's not a lot
like it costs a lot of money to live
like I live I spent $30,000 on my lawn
in the last 45 days because of the
drought and the things I wanted to get
done had some lighting put around
outside the house that's
$33,000 I spent
3,000 plus of it was just basically
paying for the the lawn care each week
but everything else was stuff I was
being that's been done to my
home okay I I spent over
$100,000 in the last what nine months
just for things for my
house and my wife is constantly looking
she's constantly looking for [__] that
we don't need okay so I I don't need
this
for money but I do enjoy doing it and
once I start doing it because it's my
whole life I enjoy doing and I want to
pour myself into it and because I want
my son to have every aspect every subtle
Nuance that's why it's here so when you
send me comments for the few little soy
boys that do this say you talk too much
you talk too much for a grown man I
broom you because you're insignificant
you're a nobody that's never going to be
successful at this because you can't
appreciate complete understanding being
shared with
you you can watch everybody else out
there they're not they're not going to
explain to you why and when it's going
to happen you're not going to get that
they might get lucky once in a while
chasing a momentum run but you're never
going to hear them explain beforehand
why it should do this and it be this
precise you won't hear them explain why
they don't like a certain Market
condition because that means you're
going to be doing little or less or not
watching them them I don't care if you
watch my stream I don't give a [__] I
don't care if this viewership drops down
to one because that's my son
watching he asked for this I didn't ask
for this he asked for
it so I'm pouring myself into
this and he'll tell you if any one of my
kids were to be candid with you and say
look we don't like asking dad questions
because it's going to take an hour for
him to explain [__] so it's not just
this if I know something I'm going to
make sure you you had enough interest to
ask me knowing full [__] well that I
am a mouth I will talk and talk and talk
and talk not because I like the sound of
my voice but because I want you to know
that you
know you asked if I understand it and I
know the question and then I know the
answer to it I'm going to pour myself
into that you're going to know you'll
never need to ask that question again
but now he's asked about trading and the
markets so yes Virginia we're going
around the mountain the long [__] way
okay because I want him to know
everything because tomorrow is not
promised to me I could I could be taken
out of here tomorrow Lord says you know
what it's done you don't even get
tomorrow you get today that's it he
could take me right now and then he's
only got everything I've ever recorded
in all of my journals and those journals
are not going to be decipherable by just
reading them I can place them in any one
of of your hands and you're not going to
understand [__] because the the language
that I'm using in it is not something I
taught to you or anyone
else so it's it's not something that is
an easy download and it's there he's got
to go through the same growth that any
one of you have gone through the
difference is is I'm not holding back
anything whereas hell I've held back a
lot because it's been abused it's been
marketed by people to make money some
ass hat still trying to sell mentorship
videos when it's still right here on the
YouTube channel for free and the people
that paid that person are stupid they're
[__] stupid like if you're literally
paying anything for any smart money
Concepts um ICT related anything if
you're paying for that you're an idiot
like I'm literally here right now
teaching over live
data and I've uploaded the mentorship
videos on on the YouTube channel they're
in the playlists
I don't get it and there's people email
me every day can you can you do another
paid mentorship why I'm doing more than
I did here than I did for
them let it sink in I'm literally doing
this with No Reservations I'm telling
you what's going to happen how to use
the information very specific elements
to the macros to the inefficiencies how
to get the bias that's a straight
shot and I still have people can you can
you tell us how to do a daily
bias and that's all I've been teaching
thus
far you're what are you listening
to but
anyway um we're on one minute chart
let's uh let's back out of this go up to
a daily chart and I'll take one quick
peek at it leave you with any commentary
in regards to where it might still reach
for and then we'll close it and I'll
have lunch
all
righty so here's the volume in Balance I
took your attention to earlier we've
traded to that and through it this up
closed
candle right here you want to measure
that to the
high okay so that's mean threshold so
19255 I'm not saying it's going there
but let's just say that it wants to keep
going higher um and go beyond the
uh previous new week opening gap which
is high the high here you see it right
there where we stopped trading and we
opened the next trading session that's
you can see that level
here that's a level to look forward to
trade to and then the middle or mean
threshold of that up close candle prior
to that drop down that midpoint right
there now if we start exploring anything
above that 255 level then they're going
to want to run this high and where's
that leave us this right
here that's a huge that's a huge
disparity between where we closed here
and where we opened there that's a huge
gap so longer longer term um if they
want to pump this up and and it can
happen because it's an election year
barring anything really catastrophic
taking place over in the Middle East um
it would be reasonable to see it want to
take this high and maybe even go up into
this area here but I'm not demanding
that I'm not holding for something like
that but for the sake of this pointing
your attention to something because you
know without any real bad news without
any mushroom clouds popping off you know
any terrible things like that occurring
um they're going to try to keep pumping
this up because it's it's in their
bested interest to make it look like the
economy is good and everybody thinks the
economy is measured by the stock market
and it's not they're not that's not
that's not a real value um
the volume IM balance here that would be
the highest extreme for this year at the
present right now looking at the chart
if it were going to go up from where
we're at now any higher the highest that
I would want it to go to and feel
comfortable and reasonbly expecting it
to do so would be that volume imbalance
right here okay um am I saying it's
going to go there no I'm saying for the
folks that have asked this question
because they can't trade with intraday
charts they want to know this you know
if you were looking at the daily chart
how far can it go because they can only
trade longer term and use a daily chart
so for the people are bitching
complaining about this stuff saying why
you talking about this I don't care
about this you're not my only student
and for the people that take the time to
write that kind of stuff I never get to
see your comments again so just know
that you can say anything you want in
your last day because I never see your
stupid [__] again but liquidity rests
here and it volume imbalances there and
uh I think that's it this is all based
on the fact that we didn't see anything
pop off with Iran and Israel to a
greater degree that that's what this is
this is kind of like a relief it's just
being organized and and sentiment that
okay everything's safe right now does it
stay that way who knows all it takes is
the right thing dropping in the right
place and all hell breaks loose so
borring any of those types of things
we're probably going to continue keep
pressing up and challenging uh you know
the midpoint of that inefficiency and
therefore just stick with the underlying
narrative and don't try to fight it
otherwise I will be back with you all
again tomorrow um I do not absolutely
want to spend this much time tomorrow I
know some of you complain that the
videos are too long and you can't digest
them because it's too much because you
work and you have a life I get it but
remember I'm not not here for just you
I'm here for a complete overview a
complete rundown everything because it's
my son that's that's my that's who I'm
talking to it might feel like I'm
talking to you but I'm talking to Caleb
so you're just here listening you're
over you know you're ease
dropping you're EAS dropping by
invitation just remember that so you're
a guest and you don't get to tell me
what you want you can but I don't need
ever seeing your comments ever again
but that's why it's a long way around
the mountain because it's it's my son
asking and I want him to have all the
details all of the ramifications that
will be met by him in his development
all the circumstances that will feel
daunting all the things and how to get
around it how to cope with it how to
feel normal in it how to look Beyond it
that's what I'm including this is me
mentoring my son
and I don't want Insight from any of you
cuz I don't I don't care to what you you
think I should do you're not going to
give it any better than me I I'm who I
am and I'm his dad so no one's going to
have the right answer Beyond me
so while I appreciate your enthusiasm
and trying to feel like you're having an
input in it you don't get an input you
just get a seat to sit here and watch it
and nobody's twisting your arm so that's
going to be it I've had fun I've shared
a lot of stuff today uh I think I've
communicated but rather effectively that
you don't have to do something every
single day you don't have to know
everything if it's going against the
grain that you are outlining for your
model be flexible with yourself give
yourself permission in the beginning and
just relax after it happens after it
forms go back in and study what was
presented and hold nothing over your
head as a punishment saying well I
should have saw that because in the
beginning you shouldn't you're learning
how to do that and over time you'll pick
it up I I promise son you will get this
but you have to take things bite sides
bite sides at a time and eventually
you'll have more experience you'll start
finishing my sentences like you do when
we're talking about the Bible and all
these things will start to become second
nature to you and when it's like that
and it's boring and you're not in a rush
to get in there and show Dad that you
can do this that's a huge goal but we're
not in the rush to get there don't think
that I need to see that anytime soon but
that's where we're aiming for we're
aiming for you knowing where the
Market's going to go
once we get there then we can start
fleshing out some more stuff but until
tomorrow 9:15 or so Lord willing I will
talk with you all then be safe